ALIEN PLANET. A Puddle Jumper flies through the open Gate and flies over the
landscape. Team Sheppard -- Lieutenant Colonel John Sheppard, Doctor Rodney
McKay, Teyla Emmagan and Ronon Dex -- is on board.  
  
SHEPPARD: Look familiar?  
  
DEX: No.  
  
TEYLA: Me either. I do not believe I have been to this planet before.  
  
McKAY: There's no sign of any settlements -- at least, nothing recent.  
  
DEX (pointing): Other than the smoke from that campfire.  
  
McKAY: Ah. Yes, well. I mean, other than that.  
  
(Teyla turns and looks at Ronon who grins. She looks away, hiding a smile.)  
  
SHEPPARD: We'll land within a few hundred yards.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. The Jumper has landed and the team walks through the camp.
It has several very dilapidated and botched-together looking shacks
surrounding a central area, and the place is littered with debris. There
doesn't appear to be anybody around, although the fire that Ronon spotted is
still smoking.  
  
McKAY: It's primitive -- definitely primitive. Probably not even worth making
contact. What is that _smell_?  
  
SHEPPARD (calling out): Hello!  
  
TEYLA: It appears they left in a hurry.  
  
SHEPPARD: Not used to friendlies coming out of the Gate.  
  
(Ronon has strolled over to the fire and bends down to the pot over it. He
lifts up the wooden spoon in the pot.)  
  
McKAY: What are you ... oh my God, he's tasting it! You don't know what that
is -- that could be their laundry!  
  
DEX (having already taken a mouthful): Very good!  
  
McKAY: Oh yes, good idea! And when you're finished with their porridge, why
don't we try their beds, hmm?  
  
(Ronon bites into something before offering it to Teyla.)  
  
DEX: Want some?  
  
(Teyla turns away.)  
  
McKAY (to Ronon): How good is it?  
  
SHEPPARD: Leave it be, Goldilocks.  
  
(Suddenly a flurry of arrows is fired at them.)  
  
DEX: Get down!  
  
(They dive for hiding places as the arrows impact the ground all around them.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Take cover!  
  
(One of the arrows smashes through Ronon's left ankle. The team ducks down as
a group of men break out of the cover of the bushes, duck behind some cover
and start firing slingshots at them. The men are dirty, dishevelled and
dressed in scruffy leather. Whatever is in the slingshots explodes as the
missiles impact near the team.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What the hell's in those slingshots?!  
  
(The team returns fire. Rodney looks round at Ronon and sees the arrow
sticking out of his leg.)  
  
McKAY: You alright?  
  
DEX: I'm fine. (He snaps off the back end of the arrow, grunting in pain, and
pulls the rest of it through his leg.)  
  
SHEPPARD (calling out): You know, this is not a good way to make new friends!
But we'll leave if you want us to! (He waits for a moment but the men don't
reply. He turns to his team.) I'll take that as a yes. Let's go back to the
Jumper. Teyla, you're on point; I'll take the six; McKay, help Ronon.  
  
DEX: Don't worry about me.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'm a worrier -- let the man give you a hand.  
  
(They stand and start to move away, but one of the men, Torrell, promptly
calls out to his colleagues.)  
  
TORRELL: Fire!  
  
(They all start firing their slingshots at the team again. The team returns
fire. It looks like a stand-off, but moments later everybody looks up as a
small craft, about the same size as the Jumper, flies in and hovers over the
campsite. It lowers some jets and manoeuvres so that the blast from the jets
is aimed at the locals, blowing some of them off their feet. John sees his
opportunity.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, move! Move!  
  
(They get up and race off, Ronon limping heavily. Torrell, frustrated, watches
them go. The team reaches the Jumper, runs inside and John jumps into the
pilot's seat and gets the Jumper into the air.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Everyone in one piece?  
  
DEX: Yeah -- thanks to that ship. (He stands up to get a better look at the
ship but Teyla makes him sit down again.)  
  
TEYLA: Be still. (She bends down to look at his leg.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, I like their timing.  
  
McKAY: No kidding! Did you _see_ that thing?!  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, I _saw_ that thing!  
  
VOICE (over comms): Unidentified ship. This is the security vessel Poros.
Follow us immediately and we will lead you to the city.  
  
SHEPPARD: That's good, Poros. Thanks for the help back there. (He turns to the
others.) _That's_ how you make new friends!  
  
  
LATER. The team has arrived at a modern-looking city (by Earth standards) and
is being escorted by the security team. A woman comes to greet them.  
  
MARIN: Welcome to Olesia. I am Marin.  
  
SHEPPARD: Lieutenant Colonel John Sheppard. (He introduces the others.) Teyla
Emmagan, Doctor Rodney McKay, Ronon Dex.  
  
MARIN: Please, follow me. (They start to walk.) I sent a security detachment
as soon as we detected your presence on the island. The prisoners there can be
quite hostile.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, we definitely got off on the wrong foot.  
  
TEYLA: Prisoners?  
  
MARIN: Yes. The island is a penal colony. The prisoners usually don't cause
much trouble, as long as you don't try to land there.  
  
McKAY: Well, you could put up a sign!  
  
TEYLA: The Stargate is on the island. Does this not affect your ability to
trade with other worlds?  
  
MARIN: Yes, of course. As a result, we have needed to be almost entirely self-
sufficient.  
  
SHEPPARD: Then why put a prison there?  
  
MARIN: I believe the Magistrate is better suited to answer these questions. He
is very eager to meet you.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. The team has moved inside an administrative building and
is meeting with the Magistrate. Right from the start he sounds completely
insincere in everything he says, and his clearly fake fawning attitude towards
the team seems to get John's back up, as he acts just as insincere whenever he
speaks.  
  
MAGISTRATE: Your ship is a most intriguing design. I must admit I'm surprised
to find others in this galaxy whose technology rivals our own -- aside from
the Wraith, I mean.  
  
McKAY: It's funny -- I was about to make the exact same comment.  
  
MAGISTRATE: Where _do_ you come from?  
  
SHEPPARD: Until recently, uh, Atlantis.  
  
MAGISTRATE: The ancestral city.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. Unfortunately it was destroyed by the Wraith a short time ago.  
  
MAGISTRATE: How tragic.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, we're pretty broken up about it.  
  
TEYLA: We are part of a small group of people that were able to escape.  
  
MAGISTRATE: How fortunate for you.  
  
McKAY: Yes, yes, yes, yes, very fortunate. Look -- getting back to the
technologies thing. I'm just curious: how've you been able to make such
advancements without the Wraith stepping in?  
  
MAGISTRATE: The Wraith have chosen to leave us alone.  
  
(John glances suspiciously at his colleagues before turning back to the
Magistrate.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Why?  
  
MAGISTRATE: I don't know.  
  
DEX: They've never come here?  
  
MAGISTRATE: The Wraith have been here many times, but with the Ancestral Ring
on the island, the Wraith have always been ... how shall I put this? ...
satiated with the prisoners living there. (Rodney looks sick and glances round
at John.) The Wraith have no need to venture any further.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, that would explain why you put the prison there.  
  
MAGISTRATE: The island has been a penal colony for hundreds of years. Its
location there has benefited my people greatly.  
  
SHEPPARD: Not _all_ your people.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I assure you only the most violent criminals are sent there -- as
you discovered. (He gestures down to Ronon's ankle.)  
  
DEX: It's a good crime deterrent.  
  
MAGISTRATE: Crime is virtually non-existent on Olesia. Unlike the prisoners,
we pride ourselves on being a most hospitable and civilised people.  
  
(The team looks uncomfortable.)  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. The Magistrate is leading the team through the city.  
  
MAGISTRATE: This section of the city is devoted to scientific research. Our
scientists have recently attained success in the enrichment of a fissionable,
yet non-radioactive, material to be used in generating power for the city.  
  
McKAY: Fissionable yet non-radioactive? Well, that-that-that-that, is that
even possible? What kind of material is it?  
  
MAGISTRATE: It's an ore extracted from a mineral found on our planet. It's
quite volatile, but it yields great promise. I'd be very happy to show you the
laboratory.  
  
McKAY: I'd be very happy to see it.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'd be very happy to go back to our ship. Our people are due to
check in with us in a little while over the radio. We'll have to get back
within range.  
  
MAGISTRATE: You can link with one of our radio relay stations. There should be
enough power to reach the island, if that's your concern.  
  
SHEPPARD: So we'll be speaking privately?  
  
MAGISTRATE: Of course!  
  
  
ATLANTIS. Doctor Elizabeth Weir is in the Control Room, talking with John over
the radio via the Stargate.  
  
WEIR: And you believe they might be willing to share some of this mineral?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, they seem open to it. They don't get many trading
opportunities coming through the Gate.  
  
WEIR: Sounds promising.  
  
(The view switches to the offworld team. They're in a large sumptuous room.
While John talks with Elizabeth, the others are investigating the room. Both
Ronon and Rodney are paying particular attention to the food and fruit that
has been laid out for them. Ronon is stuffing items of food into his pockets.)  
  
SHEPPARD: There _is_, however, the minor moral hiccup of their form of capital
punishment.  
  
WEIR: I'm sorry?  
  
McKAY: They have an island. It's their own version of Alcatraz where they send
their worst criminals.  
  
SHEPPARD: And the Gate is on the island, so ...  
  
WEIR: ... so the Wraith feed on the prisoners.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yep.  
  
WEIR: Talk about cruel and unusual punishment.  
  
McKAY: I prefer lethal injection, although I do have a certain fondness for
the electric chair. Call me romantic.  
  
(John smiles.)  
  
DEX: The Wraith get what they want, the Olesians get left alone. Surprised it
works.  
  
SHEPPARD: He _did_, however, say that only the most violent criminals get sent
there, and that it has been this way for hundreds of years.  
  
TEYLA: Do you kill all _your_ violent criminals on Earth?  
  
McKAY: Certain countries, yes.  
  
SHEPPARD: Do we need to get into this right now?  
  
WEIR: Well, we do if we plan on doing business with these people. I wanna know
more before I jump to any conclusions.  
  
  
LATER. The team returns to the Magistrate's office.  
  
SHEPPARD: We were able to speak with our people -- thank you.  
  
MAGISTRATE: Of course!  
  
SHEPPARD: If you're open to it, we'd like to discuss possible trade
opportunities.  
  
MAGISTRATE: We are _very_ open. I'm sure there's much that we can learn from
each other.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, Doctor Elizabeth Weir will be the one to begin official
negotiations with you -- that's really her thing.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I am looking forward to meeting her, and the start of a promising
friendship.  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER. The team is flying back over an ocean towards the island.  
  
McKAY: Seriously, am I the only one creeped out by that guy?  
  
SHEPPARD: They're politicians, Rodney -- they're _all_ creepy.  
  
(As the Jumper approaches the island, it is being watched through a telescope
by Torrell. He calls out to the people around him.)  
  
TORRELL: Prepare to fire!  
  
(The prisoners load what look like large cannonballs into metal cylinders
which are pointing skywards. Some of the prisoners lower burning branches
towards the firing mechanism.)  
  
(In the Jumper)  
  
McKAY: Margaret Thatcher wasn't creepy. OK -- well, maybe a little. She
actually resembled an aunt of mine -- same hairstyle, facial structure, only
my aunt was much taller, and remarkably hirsute. Oddest thing: she had to
shave twice a day.  
  
(On the island)  
  
TORRELL: Fire!  
  
(The ‘cannons' fire into the sky. The Jumper jolts.)  
  
TEYLA: What was that?  
  
(Up ahead of the Jumper, something explodes in the air.)  
  
SHEPPARD: They're shooting at us.  
  
TEYLA: The prisoners?  
  
McKAY: With what?!  
  
DEX: Cloak the ship.  
  
SHEPPARD: I can't -- we took some damage. We'll be lucky to make it to the
Gate.  
  
McKAY: Well, how close are we?  
  
SHEPPARD: Close enough to dial.  
  
(Teyla promptly starts to dial. On the island, the ‘cannons' continue to fire.
One of the missiles explodes near enough to throw the Jumper around.)  
  
DEX: That was close.  
  
SHEPPARD: Get ready to send an I.D.C.  
  
(More missiles explode around the Jumper.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I've lost control systems. Hang on.  
  
(The Jumper plunges groundwards, smoke trailing from one of the engine pods.
The prisoners cheer as they watch it go past.)  
  
TORRELL: Have at them!  
  
(The prisoners run off in the direction the Jumper is heading.)  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER. The dust is settling around the site of the crash landing.
Inside, everyone has been winded and thrown around by the impact. Teyla drags
herself to her feet and turns to look at Ronon, who is groaning but recovering
and who nods to her. She turns to Rodney.  
  
TEYLA: Are you alright?  
  
McKAY (with his hand at his mouth): I think I chipped a tooth. Did I chip a
tooth? Am I bleeding? Because I am at high risk of enterocarditis.  
  
(Teyla turns to the front of the cockpit again, where John is slowly pulling
himself together.)  
  
TEYLA: John?  
  
SHEPPARD: That was, uh, not one of my better landings. Sorry.  
  
DEX: The Gate should still be active for a few minutes.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, let's go.  
  
(He opens the rear door of the Jumper and everyone hurries out, Rodney still
poking around in his mouth. As they walk down the ramp, prisoners whoop as
they run towards them, surrounding them and aiming slingshots and bows and
arrows at them or wielding large clubs. John realises that they are seriously
outgunned (or, rather, outweaponed) and gestures to Ronon to lower his
blaster. Ronon reluctantly and angrily raises his hands in surrender.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hi, folks. I hope I didn't crash-land on anybody.  
  
  
CAMP. Torrell and his fellow prisoners have apparently removed everything they
can carry from the Jumper and are investigating what they've got. Torrell
lifts a P90 and fires it into the air, then makes one of the prisoners move
out the way as he fires another burst at the nearby pond. Another prisoner
lifts up a rocket launcher, aiming it at the same spot that Torrell just fired
at. He presses the button and the rocket fires -- out of the other end of the
launcher, flying out behind them and blowing up a shack. The explosion knocks
several of the prisoners to the ground. As the shack's remains burn fiercely,
everybody gets up and laughs as the prisoner wields the launcher triumphantly.  
  
  
ANOTHER SHACK. Each member of the team has his or her arms strapped around a
horizontal large stick and is sitting on the ground with his/her arms, waist
and neck tied to an upright pole with leather straps. Torrell, carrying
Ronon's blaster, and some of his cronies come into the shack.  
  
SHEPPARD: You should know our people are expecting us. If we don't show up
soon, they'll come looking for us.  
  
TORRELL: Is that supposed to concern me?  
  
SHEPPARD: Don't go getting all full of yourself, chief. A few cannons are no
match for the kind of firepower they'll be bringing with them -- although I
should compliment whoever took that first shot. It was a good one.  
  
TORRELL: Yeah, it was nice, wasn't it?  
  
TEYLA: What do you want from us?  
  
TORRELL: Well, we've already got your weapons. Now I do believe we'll take
your ship. You see, we had been planning a little trip to the mainland, but
after seeing you fly that thing through the Ancestral Ring ...  
  
McKAY: You're referring to the ship you just shot down, the one that doesn't
stand a hope in hell of ever flying again.  
  
TORRELL: The ship that you're gonna fix, yes.  
  
McKAY: What am I, MacGuyver? Fix it with _what_?  
  
TORRELL (to one of his cronies): Get him up. (The crony hauls Rodney to his
feet.) You seem like a smart man. I'm sure you'll think of something. Maybe
all you need is a little motivation.  
  
(He fires the blaster towards Rodney. The shot goes past him and blows a huge
hole in the back of the shack.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Maybe you should think about fixing it, Rodney.  
  
McKAY: Good idea.  
  
TORRELL: My friends all tell me I have a remarkable gift for persuasion.  
  
(He strolls out of the shack as one of the prisoners starts to untie Rodney.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS. CONTROL ROOM. Elizabeth comes over to talk to the Canadian
technician.  
  
WEIR: What happened?  
  
TECHNICIAN: The Gate activated but nothing came through.  
  
WEIR: Colonel Sheppard?  
  
TECHNICIAN: So we assume. We received no I.D.C. -- a few moments later, the
Gate shuts down.  
  
WEIR: They should have returned by now. Dial the planet and try to establish a
radio link.  
  
TECHNICIAN: Yes, ma'am.  
  
(Elizabeth activates her radio.)  
  
WEIR: Major Lorne, this is Weir.  
  
LORNE (over radio): Go ahead.  
  
WEIR: I may have to go offworld to assist Colonel Sheppard. I'd like you to
assemble a team and have a Puddle Jumper ready to go.  
  
LORNE: Yes, ma'am.  
  
  
CAMP. As prisoners continue to rummage through what they took from the Jumper,
inside the shack all three of the team are struggling to get free.  
  
SHEPPARD: Anyone having any luck?  
  
DEX: Not yet.  
  
TEYLA: These bindings are very secure.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, leave it to convicts to know the best way to tie people up.  
  
DEX (continuing to struggle): Well, eventually I will get free and when I do,
he's gonna pay for this.  
  
SHEPPARD: Now listen to me. When you get free, you get _us_ free and we all
get out of here. Let ‘em find out we're gone _after_ we're gone.  
  
DEX: You're expecting me to let them get away with this?  
  
SHEPPARD: The operative words are “get away”.  
  
DEX: After I kill them.  
  
SHEPPARD: That type of thinking will get _us_ killed.  
  
DEX: Well, if you had returned fire ...  
  
SHEPPARD: The weapons systems were damaged.  
  
DEX: If you say so.  
  
SHEPPARD: I _do_ say so, and right now I'm saying knock it off.  
  
DEX: Is that an order, Sheppard?  
  
SHEPPARD (laughing ruefully): I am beat up, tied up, and couldn't order a
_pizza_ right now if I wanted to. But if you need it to be, yeah -- it's an
order.  
  
DEX: ... OK.  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER.  
  
McKAY: There is no power getting to any of these controls, you understand?
Look, nothing.  
  
TORRELL: Why not?  
  
McKAY: Let me go out on a limb here and say that maybe it had something to do
with the crash? Which of course begs the question: how the hell'd you get your
hands on explosives?  
  
TORRELL: Eldon made them. He fashioned a composite out of minerals and
materials he found around the island. Crude, yes, but effective. We shot you
down, didn't we?  
  
McKAY: Eldon. Who's Eldon?  
  
ELDON: That would be me.  
  
(Rodney turns to face the man who just spoke, who waves at him. He looks even
scruffier than the others.)  
  
McKAY: You're a prisoner?  
  
ELDON: I was accused of killing someone ...  
  
TORRELL: He's a scientist.  
  
ELDON: ... but it was a case of mistaken identity.  
  
TORRELL: Tell you what, Eldon, you can tell him your whole life story. Just
help him fix the ship.  
  
McKAY: Look, I don't know what you expect me to do. I don't have any of the
proper diagnostic tools, not to mention the fact that ... (He trails off as
Torrell raises his hand and wiggles his fingers in a ‘yack-yack-yack'
gesture.)  
  
TORRELL: You'll figure it out.  
  
McKAY: And if I don't?  
  
TORRELL: Well, I could kill you. But you strike me as the type of man who,
despite being weak and cowardly on the outside, harbours a strength of
character he doesn't even know he has.  
  
McKAY: I'm sorry -- was there a compliment in there?  
  
TORRELL: See, the way to motivate a man like you, Mr McKay, is not to threaten
your life; it's to threaten the lives of your friends. (Rodney stares at him.)
That's right. Fix the ship, otherwise they start dying, one after another,
‘til you change your mind, or until they're all dead. I don't care.  
  
(He leaves the ship, gesturing to one of his colleagues to guard the exit.
Rodney stares at him and at Eldon for a moment, then reaches up and pulls open
a panel in the ship.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS. Elizabeth comes on board one of the Jumpers. Major Lorne is already
in the pilot's seat and two other marines are also on board.  
  
WEIR: All set?  
  
LORNE: Ready to go. Still no word from them?  
  
WEIR: Nothing.  
  
LORNE: Don't worry, we'll find them.  
  
WEIR (sitting down): I was hoping to negotiate a trade agreement -- now I'm
worried I'm gonna have to negotiate their release.  
  
LORNE: We don't know that.  
  
(Elizabeth looks at him and nods in gratitude for his attempt at reassuring
her.)  
  
WEIR: Dial the Gate -- but go to stealth mode the moment we're through.  
  
(Lorne starts dialling.)  
  
  
OLESIA ISLAND. The Gate kawhooshes. The Jumper flies through and immediately
vanishes as the cloak engages. Nearby, two of them men guarding the Jumper run
out and stare at the sky but can see nothing. They shrug to each other as the
Gate closes down again.  
  
(Inside the Jumper, Eldon takes out a piece of crystal panel from the wall and
stares at it. Despite Torrell's assertion that Eldon is a scientist, his
manner of speech implies that he's not very bright.)  
  
ELDON: The technology on this ship is far more advanced than the Olesians'.  
  
McKAY: How ironic, then, to have been shot down by the cast of Braveheart. (He
looks round at Eldon, snatches the crystal panel off him and puts it in his
pocket.)  
  
ELDON: Well, I'm surprised we were _able_ to shoot you down.  
  
McKAY: It's the old low-tech versus high-tech argument, I suppose.  
  
ELDON: We've been working on those weapons for years.  
  
McKAY: Yes, well, well done, good for them, huh? Now, are you gonna continue
talking, or, uh ... (Eldon blinks at him and says nothing.) Thank you. (He
works on the panel for a moment, then looks round to see Eldon holding up
another crystal panel and looking at it. He snatches it off him.) Oh, give me
that! See, where did that come from?  
  
  
CAMP. Torrell is rummaging through the gear taken from the Jumper. He picks up
a radio and presses a button, only to hear a burst of static from somewhere
nearby. He presses the button again and listens to hear where the static came
from, eventually tracking down a second radio near his feet. He presses the
button again to confirm the source of the sound, then looks round at the shack
thoughtfully.  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER. Rodney is still working on the panel. He looks round and sees
Eldon watching him intently and in fascination. Eldon notices that Rodney is
looking at him and turns away. Rodney gets back to working on the panel.  
  
McKAY: Those cannons. Your design?  
  
ELDON: No, no, no ... well, I chose the material and helped calculate
trajectories ... the ignition mechanisms ... and the fuses, of course ...
(Rodney turns to stare at him) but most of my efforts went into fashioning the
explosive shots.  
  
McKAY: Ah, explosives. (He turns back to work on the panel.) Is that how you
killed a man?  
  
ELDON: No, I didn't kill him. I'm innocent. I don't belong here.  
  
McKAY: Hmm, really? I wonder if there's ever been a convicted felon who
_didn't_ claim he was innocent?  
  
ELDON: I don't care if you don't believe me. I just want off this island.  
  
(Rodney takes a crystal panel out of the panel he was working on.)  
  
McKAY: Oh no.  
  
ELDON: What is it?  
  
McKAY: I assume there's no D.H.D. beside the Stargate? (Eldon looks at him
blankly.) Uh, the Ancestral Ring. Is there some kind of a dialling device that
turns it on?  
  
ELDON: No. Nothing.  
  
McKAY: Ah, of course. Why give the prisoners such an obvious means of escape?  
  
ELDON: What's wrong?  
  
McKAY: The main power distribution conduit's been damaged. It effectively cuts
all the power to the primary systems: drive pods, cockpit controls, D.H.D.,
hmm?  
  
ELDON: Can you fix it?  
  
McKAY: Easily -- if I had a replacement. Without one, you and your friends
aren't going anywhere.  
  
ELDON: Neither are you. If you don't fix the ship, Torrell's gonna make sure
you're the first the Wraith find at the next culling.  
  
  
SHACK. Rodney, his arms tied around a stick again and his wrists tied to a
strap around his waist, is brought into the shack by Torrell and some others.  
  
TORRELL: Choose.  
  
McKAY: Choose what?  
  
TORRELL: Which one of them dies first. Do it.  
  
(Rodney stares at his team.)  
  
McKAY: I can't do that.  
  
TORRELL: Well then I'll choose for you. Either way, one of them dies unless
you change your mind about fixing that ship.  
  
McKAY: I'm sorry, but there are some things beyond my capability.  
  
TORRELL: I don't believe you.  
  
McKAY: I know it is hard to believe, but ...  
  
TORRELL: No, I mean I think you're lying.  
  
McKAY: I'm not! It's broken! D'you understand broken?  
  
TORRELL: I know your type. You whine and you complain and you see to it that
your every task is viewed as some impossible achievement so that when you do
succeed, your gargantuan efforts are viewed as all the more heroic.  
  
McKAY: That may be true in some cases, but this is not one of them. You are
asking me to do the impossible.  
  
TORRELL: Your friends' lives are in your hands. I'll give you some time to
choose.  
  
(He leaves the shack. One of the prisoners takes Rodney back to where he was
previously tied, and ties him up again before leaving. Eldon wanders over.)  
  
ELDON: Listen to him, McKay. He's killed eleven people. Eight before he was
sent here, and three since he's been on the island.  
  
McKAY: Eleven, huh? You've got some catching up to do, don't you? (To the
others) He's only killed one.  
  
SHEPPARD (disbelieving): Who, him?  
  
ELDON: I told you I'm here because of a mistake.  
  
DEX: I'm sure everyone here on this island says that.  
  
ELDON: Well, as a matter of fact, some of us _are_ innocent. Only a few like
Torrell are actual murderers.  
  
TEYLA: You mean they put all their criminals here, regardless of the crimes
they commit?  
  
ELDON: Once only the worst of the worst was sent here, but the punishment
proved to be such a successful deterrent that crime rates in Olesia plummeted,
which meant fewer and fewer prisoners.  
  
TEYLA: Less food for the Wraith.  
  
ELDON: Exactly.  
  
SHEPPARD: So they lowered the bar.  
  
(Eldon nods.)  
  
  
OLESIA CITY. Elizabeth and her team are walking with the Magistrate and Marin.  
  
MAGISTRATE: They have not returned to the planet?  
  
WEIR: No, and we haven't been able to establish radio contact with them
either.  
  
MAGISTRATE: They didn't return to the city. Perhaps they travelled through the
Ring to another planet.  
  
WEIR: No. They would have radioed first.  
  
MARIN: Something must have happened on the island. I'll alert our security
teams -- have them begin a search.  
  
LORNE: We'll join them.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I would advise against that.  
  
WEIR: Would you?  
  
MAGISTRATE: The island is extremely dangerous. Our ships are heavily armoured.
We know the terrain, as well as the prisoners' tactics. Don't worry -- we'll
find them.  
  
WEIR: I hope you do, Magistrate -- for all our sakes.  
  
MAGISTRATE: Of course.  
  
(He and his people move off as Elizabeth and Lorne exchange suspicious
glances.)  
  
  
ISLAND. CAMP. In the shack, Ronon is groaning and grunting as he strains at
his restraints.  
  
DEX: I think they're loosening! (He grunts again as he strains harder.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Take it easy, Chewie -- you're gonna cut your damned hands off.  
  
TEYLA: The more we struggle, the tighter the bindings get.  
  
(Behind them, one of the metal panels that forms the wall of the shack is
tugged aside, and Eldon crawls in and moves round to face the four of them.)  
  
ELDON: You need something like this. (He holds up a small knife.)  
  
McKAY: What about the guards?  
  
ELDON: They stepped away. No-one's watching.  
  
TEYLA: Will you help us?  
  
ELDON: If you'll help me.  
  
SHEPPARD: How?  
  
ELDON: Fix the ship, let me leave with you.  
  
McKAY: Oh for God's sake! How many times do I have to tell you ...  
  
ELDON: I know you can do it. I could see it in your eyes when you were working
that you were holding something back from us.  
  
SHEPPARD (sternly): Rodney?  
  
McKAY: _Nobody_ could fix it. (To Eldon) I don't care who you think I am, or
what you think you saw in my eyes, but it is totally, completely impossible.  
  
ELDON: Torrell and his men are gonna return soon.  
  
SHEPPARD: He'll fix it.  
  
McKAY: I just said I couldn't!  
  
SHEPPARD: You really suck at lying, Rodney. (To Eldon) We have a deal.  
  
McKAY: There is one _slight_ possibility.  
  
SHEPPARD (to Eldon): See?!  
  
McKAY: I won't actually be able to fix the ship to fly out of here but I may
be able to cobble together enough power from secondary systems to activate the
D.H.D. That way we can dial the Gate and leave on foot. And when I say
“might”, I mean probably not. It's a long shot at best -- I'd have to bypass
the main power distribution ...  
  
SHEPPARD (to Eldon): Get us outta here.  
  
(Eldon goes to Ronon first and cuts his hands free. The moment he does, Ronon
grabs the knife off him, seizes him by the arm and holds the knife against
Eldon's throat.)  
  
ELDON: What are you doing?!  
  
DEX: Give me one reason why I shouldn't cut your throat.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, one, it would make a mess. Look, we made a deal. Just let him
go.  
  
(Ronon glares at Eldon for a few moments longer, then shoves him onto his back
and cuts himself free before getting up and cutting John free. He then goes
over to Rodney and bends down to cut the strap around his waist.)  
  
McKAY: Careful, careful.  
  
DEX: Suck it up.  
  
(He cuts him free, then goes to Teyla to release her. John crawls to the gap
at the back of the shack, checks to make sure nobody's around, then everyone
crawls out. When they're gone, the camera pans across the shack to show a
radio concealed in some rags on the floor. Its Transmit button is taped down.)  
  
  
FOREST. The five of them are making their way towards the Jumper. John holds
up his hand and crouches down. The others follow suit.  
  
DEX: Why are we stopping?  
  
SHEPPARD: This is way too easy. Alright, stay close and (he looks pointedly at
Rodney) stay quiet. (He stands up and moves off as the others follow.)  
  
McKAY: What?! (To Teyla) Why did say that to me?!  
  
(Teyla shoves him onwards. The team makes its way nearer to the Jumper, then
takes cover at the edge of the clearing and checks the area. They can see
prisoners lurking in the trees nearby. John looks round at Eldon.)  
  
ELDON: I didn't know anything about this, I swear.  
  
TEYLA: We will never be able to make it to the Jumper -- they have our
weapons.  
  
DEX: We don't need weapons.  
  
McKAY: What about the fact they seriously outnumber us?  
  
SHEPPARD: At least we've got the element of surprise.  
  
DEX: I was beginning to think you were afraid to fight.  
  
SHEPPARD: No. I'm just naturally lazy, but I will if I have to -- and it's
starting to look like we have to. (To Rodney) How much time do you need to
rework the D.H.D.?  
  
McKAY: Well, in a perfect world, two days.  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney?  
  
McKAY: Right now -- ten minutes, give or take.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, we need to create a diversion. We split up and flank ‘em.
Get ‘em looking everywhere except the Jumper. Hopefully we can buy enough time
to steal back our weapons.  
  
(Everyone looks round as the sound of the Gate dialling can be heard.)  
  
SHEPPARD: ... or we could just dial the Gate.  
  
TEYLA: They fixed the D.H.D.?  
  
McKAY: That's impossible.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't think they're the ones who dialled it.  
  
(The prisoners run out of their hiding places and race away from the Gate. The
all-too-familiar sound of a Wraith Dart is heard as it swoops out of the
Gate.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Get down!  
  
(Everybody ducks out of sight. The Dart heads off, and the Gate can be heard
closing down.)  
  
ELDON: They didn't see us.  
  
DEX: Or saw us and didn't care.  
  
McKAY: Why not?  
  
(John looks up and sees the prisoners fleeing.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Who cares? They left the Jumper.  
  
(They all jump up and head for the Jumper.)  
  
  
OLESIA CITY. The Magistrate and Marin are reporting to Elizabeth and her team.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I'm afraid the news is not good. Our rescue teams had just begun
their search on the island when the Ancestral Ring activated.  
  
WEIR: The Wraith?  
  
MAGISTRATE: It appears a culling is under way. We're not sure how many ships
are involved but our teams were forced to fall back. I'm not giving up hope.
I'll send teams back in the moment the Wraith are gone. Hopefully, your
friends will have evaded the culling. I must attend to this. (He bows and
leaves.)  
  
  
A DINING ROOM IN THE CITY. The Magistrate pours some wine into a goblet.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I apologise for my tardiness. I had an urgent matter to attend to
-- a matter which could ultimately benefit us both.  
  
(He hands the goblet to his guest who we now see for the first time. It's a
Wraith.)  
  
WRAITH: In that case ... (it takes the goblet and inhales the aroma of the
wine) ... apology accepted. (It drinks, and smiles.) Exceptional as always. I
think this is my favourite vintage yet.  
  
(The Magistrate, holding his own goblet, sits at the opposite end of the
table, on which is spread a meal.)  
  
MAGISTRATE: I hope you find the food acceptable as well. My new chef is quite
accomplished.  
  
WRAITH: I certainly hope so. Your previous chef unfortunately proved to be far
more appetising than the meals he prepared.  
  
(The Magistrate laughs nervously. The Wraith puts a forkful of food in its
mouth and snarls appreciatively.)  
  
MAGISTRATE: I must admit, I still find it intriguing to watch you eat actual
food.  
  
WRAITH: Our lineage may have diverged, but there are those of us who still
retain an appreciation for finer things. (It lifts another forkful of food and
looks at it.) And although it may provide a moment's pleasure, it does not
sustain me. (It puts the fork down, stands and walks closer to the
Magistrate.) This arrangement I have made with you and your predecessors has
served both of us well. While others of my kind have been forced to sleep
between cullings, I have enjoyed a steady stream of humans for my consumption
-- and the taste of their defiance is sweet. You, in return, have been allowed
to live in peace.  
  
MAGISTRATE: We thank you for that.  
  
WRAITH: But, throughout the galaxy, hives continue to wake in far greater
numbers than are sustainable, and with a hunger that is most pressing.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I assure you that I have put measures in place to augment the
population of the island.  
  
WRAITH: Then why is it there are even fewer inhabits on the island? Others of
my kind would have destroyed your entire planet. But I am more civilised than
that.  
  
MAGISTRATE: I thank you for your generosity.  
  
WRAITH: Still -- there are interests which must be served. There are many
Wraith who hunger -- and I have promised to provide for them. The decision you
are now faced with is: on whom shall we feed?  
  
MAGISTRATE (terrified): Your needs shall be met. You have my promise.  
  
WRAITH: Good. I would _hate_ to see anything happen to you. I do so enjoy our
dinners together. (It grins at the Magistrate, then snarls.)  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER. Ronon is standing outside keeping watch. He listens as a Dart
swoops past nearby, then we hear the Stargate close. Ronon runs inside the
Jumper to report.  
  
DEX: The Dart went back through the Gate.  
  
TEYLA: I do not know why it did not cull anyone.  
  
DEX: Maybe it did. It headed to the mainland when it first came through.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, keep watch. (Ronon heads outside again.) How's it coming,
Rodney?  
  
McKAY (lying on the floor with his head under a control panel): Slower than I
expected, but faster than humanly possible.  
  
SHEPPARD: Any chance of getting the cloaking generator powered up too? Could
really come in handy right about now.  
  
McKAY: OK, and how about a snack? Maybe you'd like me to make you a nice
sandwich?  
  
SHEPPARD: Only if it's humanly possible.  
  
McKAY: It will be a miracle if I can get the D.H.D. back online, let alone the
cloaking generator, and even if I can manage that, the power will be
intermittent at best.  
  
SHEPPARD: OK, well, F.Y.I., the Wraith have all gone, so it's just a matter of
time before Torrell and his boys return, _with_ all of our weapons.  
  
McKAY (irritably): I get it!  
  
SHEPPARD: Good!  
  
  
OLESIA CITY. Elizabeth and her team are waiting anxiously in a room. Marin
comes in, checking behind her to make sure nobody has seen her.  
  
WEIR: Marin? What's happened?  
  
MARIN: No-one must know I'm speaking to you.  
  
WEIR: Of course.  
  
MARIN: You should leave, as soon as possible.  
  
LORNE: Why?  
  
MARIN: The Magistrate has just rescinded my orders to send rescue teams back
to the island.  
  
WEIR: What? Why would he do that?  
  
MARIN: Several arrests have been made. Many people in the city have been
apprehended for unspecified violations, to be sent to the island to increase
the population there.  
  
LORNE: To keep the Wraith fed.  
  
MARIN: It's been going on for some time, but never so bad as this. The number
of arrests has ... I cannot keep quiet any longer. I _have_ to speak out.  
  
(The door opens and the Magistrate comes in, accompanied by several guards.)  
  
MAGISTRATE: Lies! Seeding fear not only among your own people but now our
guests. I cannot allow it.  
  
MARIN: I was only trying to understand why so many people are being arrested.  
  
MAGISTRATE: Your job is not to question the actions of this government. (He
gestures, and a couple of the guards step forward and take Marin's arms.)  
  
MARIN: No! Wait! (To Elizabeth) Help me! Please!  
  
(As she is hustled out of the room, Elizabeth turns to the Magistrate.)  
  
WEIR: Where are they taking her?  
  
MAGISTRATE: I'm sorry you had to witness that.  
  
WEIR: What crime has she committed?  
  
MAGISTRATE: I've recently learned that Marin has been involved in a group
seeking to undermine the Olesian government. She's become very adept at
spinning lies to suit her organisation's treasonable agenda.  
  
WEIR: Did you or did you not rescind the order to send rescue teams back to
the island?  
  
MAGISTRATE: Why would I do that?  
  
WEIR: That doesn't concern me. My first concern's with the safety of my people
-- and I promise you ...  
  
MAGISTRATE: Everything is being done to ensure their rescue and safe return.
If there's been any hindrance at all, it was because of Marin.  
  
WEIR: What's gonna happen to her now?  
  
MAGISTRATE: She'll receive a fair trial in our courts.  
  
LORNE: And then what? Sent to the island?  
  
MAGISTRATE: I'm sure where you come from, treason is also considered a very
serious offence.  
  
LORNE: So that's a yes.  
  
WEIR: Tell me: what else is considered a serious offence around here?  
  
MAGISTRATE: Anything that threatens the welfare of the Olesian people.  
  
WEIR: Are you sure it's the welfare of the people that concerns you? Or just
your own?  
  
MAGISTRATE: Choose your words very carefully, Doctor Weir.  
  
WEIR: Oh, I do. Why, is that a threat?  
  
MAGISTRATE: It's advice -- from one ally to another.  
  
WEIR: Well, this alliance -- it's just been rescinded. (To her team) We're
leaving.  
  
(The Magistrate looks round to his own guards, who put their hands on their
weapons.)  
  
WEIR: What -- you plan to arrest us too? (The Magistrate looks nervously at
the marines and their looks of determination.) Because you do _not_ wanna do
that.  
  
(Immediately the marines raise their weapons and point them at the Magistrate
and his guards. Elizabeth and the Magistrate lock gazes for a moment, then the
Magistrate nods in resignation and gestures to his guards to step aside.
Elizabeth leaves the room, the marines following her.)  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER. Ronon sees movement in the trees nearby.  
  
DEX: Party's over.  
  
SHEPPARD: And we were having such a good time! (He comes out of the Jumper and
watches as the prisoners make their way cautiously towards the Jumper.)
Alright, let's see if we can hold them off. (He runs back into the Jumper to
address Rodney.) Soon as you get the D.H.D. back online, dial the Gate and
make a run for it. When you get back to Atlantis, start working on those
sandwiches. We'll be right behind you.  
  
McKAY: Two minutes! Hold ‘em that long, we're good to go.  
  
(John runs out to join Ronon and Teyla. They wait until the path seems clear,
then run off, Teyla and Ronon going to one side of the path and John to the
other. Taking cover in the bushes, Teyla picks up a thin branch from the
ground and snaps it across her knee to make two fighting sticks. John, copying
the idea, picks up another branch and slams it down onto his knee, only to
wince and hobble when it's too thick to break. He bends down and picks up a
shorter, but equally thick, branch. Ronon and Teyla break cover and run deeper
into the bushes as a couple of prisoners run up, crouching down near the area
that they just left. As a third man runs up, John jumps out and slams his
branch across his back, then into his stomach, finally using the branch to cut
his legs from under him. Teyla takes on another prisoner with her sticks.
Ronon, unarmed, fights two men simultaneously. The fight is evenly matched for
some time, but eventually more prisoners arrive, and some of them are wielding
the team's guns while others have bows and arrows aimed at them.)  
  
PRISONER: Don't move!  
  
(The three of them have no choice but to surrender.)  
  
(In the Jumper)  
  
McKAY (from underneath the console): That's it! I did it! We're ready to go!  
  
(He comes up from under the console, only to find Torrell and a couple of
other prisoners standing in the doorway.)  
  
TORRELL: See that? I knew you could do it.  
  
(Rodney raises his hands in surrender.)  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. John, Teyla and Eldon are on their knees outside the
Jumper with their hands on their heads. Ronon is forced to his knees as
Torrell aims his blaster at the back of Ronon's head.  
  
McKAY: Oh no-no-no-no-no. You don't have to do that. Look, you want me to dial
the Gate for you? That's fine. There are hundreds of suitable planets out
there you can go to.  
  
TORRELL: And I say there are hundreds of unsuitable planets you can send me
to, aren't there?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, but I won't -- I won't send you to one of them.  
  
TORRELL: I think our best option is to just come with you to your planet --
provided you've got more of these laying around there, do ya? (He gestures to
the Jumper.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Forget it.  
  
TORRELL: I'm sorry?  
  
SHEPPARD: We'll dial you another address, you can go through, but we're not
taking you home.  
  
TORRELL: You are aware of the fact that we have a lot of weapons pointed at
you, right?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. Well, you're gonna murder us the minute we step through the
Gate anyway, so what difference does it make?  
  
TORRELL: You're very distrustful.  
  
(There's a humming sound in the distance that is getting closer. Rodney looks
up.)  
  
PRISONER: Wait, look!  
  
McKAY (gazing skywards in horror): No.  
  
(The others look up and see a Wraith cruiser descending over the top of them.)  
  
  
OCEAN. Elizabeth's Jumper is heading towards the island. A display comes up on
the windshield.  
  
LORNE: We've got a Wraith cruiser heading for the island and I'm picking up
several more on approach outside the atmosphere.  
  
WEIR: Go to stealth mode. Let's find our guys before they do.  
  
(The Jumper disappears from view.)  
  
  
ISLAND. Outside the Puddle Jumper, Torrell stares up into the sky at the
descending ship.  
  
TORRELL: What is that? What _is_ that?  
  
SHEPPARD: It's a Wraith cruiser and, trust me, you don't wanna be around when
it gets here.  
  
(Torrell continues to stare into the sky. Ronon, on his knees next to him,
takes advantage of the distraction and snatches his blaster from him. He jumps
to his feet and aims the blaster at Torrell, who aims his P90 at him. The
other prisoners all aim their weapons. John jumps to his feet.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Wait, wait. (To Rodney) Dial the Gate.  
  
(Rodney runs into the Jumper.)  
  
TORRELL (still aiming his gun at Ronon): Stop!  
  
SHEPPARD: If all the prisoners get off the island, where do you think that
ship will go?  
  
(Inside the Jumper, Rodney punches buttons on the D.H.D., then stares in
horror.)  
  
McKAY: What?! Oh, no-no-no-no-no. No, no ... (yelling) We've got a big problem
in here!  
  
(John, Teyla and Eldon run inside as Ronon and Torrell, still aiming their
weapons at each other, make their way carefully towards the entrance of the
Jumper.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What's wrong?  
  
McKAY: We lost power to the D.H.D.  
  
SHEPPARD: Why?!  
  
McKAY: I told you the power would be intermittent at best. We should have
dialled immediately I ran the patch instead of standing round and talking.  
  
SHEPPARD: Can you fix it?  
  
McKAY: I don't know!  
  
DEX: They're right on top of us.  
  
TORRELL: We could shoot them down.  
  
TEYLA: Neither your weapons nor ours will damage it.  
  
SHEPPARD (to Rodney): What about the drones -- can you patch enough power to
arm them?  
  
McKAY: They're not as intricate as the D.H.D. ... uh, maybe, maybe, maybe one,
given the time constraints.  
  
SHEPPARD: Then do it. (He jumps into the pilot's seat.)  
  
TEYLA: Can one drone shoot down an entire Wraith cruiser?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, maybe we'll get a lucky shot. McKay?  
  
McKAY (working on a console): Almost. Just give me one more ... and ... OK,
we're armed, go, before the power cuts out again!  
  
(John activates the controls and a single drone shoots out of the Jumper,
flies up and impacts on the underside of the cruiser.)  
  
(In the approaching Jumper)  
  
LORNE: Did you see that?  
  
WEIR: A drone.  
  
(In the grounded Jumper)  
  
McKAY: We scored a hit!  
  
SHEPPARD: Great. That's either gonna buy us time or piss them off.  
  
McKAY: If they didn't know we were here, they sure as hell do now.  
  
WEIR (over radio): Colonel Sheppard. You've damaged the Wraith cruiser and
it's leaving the area ...  
  
McKAY: That's Doctor Weir.  
  
WEIR: ... but there are two more cruisers incoming.  
  
(Her voice is coming from a radio in Torrell's belt. He takes it out and, as
John hurries towards him, looks at him for a moment and then hands the radio
over.)  
  
TORRELL: Here.  
  
(John takes the radio and activates it.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Elizabeth, where are you?  
  
WEIR (smiling delightedly at Lorne): We're in Jumper Two. We're cloaked,
directly above you. Are you alright?  
  
SHEPPARD: Our Jumper's disabled. Right now I need you to dial the Gate to one
of the back-up planets for the Alpha Site. Doesn't matter which one.  
  
WEIR: Understood. (To Lorne) Do it.  
  
(Lorne starts to dial. On the island, the Gate kawhooshes. John calls out to
the prisoners standing outside the Jumper.)  
  
SHEPPARD: OK, everyone who wanted off this planet -- now's your chance. (The
prisoners turn and run for the Gate. John turns to Torrell.) Time to go.  
  
TORRELL: Why should we trust you, huh?  
  
SHEPPARD: You wanna stay, stay. I really don't give a damn, but you are _not_
coming home with us.  
  
ELDON (rising from his seat): But ...  
  
SHEPPARD (without taking his eyes off Torrell): Yeah, yeah, yeah, _you_ can
come.  
  
(Eldon sinks back down in relief. Torrell thinks about it for a moment, then
turns to Ronon and sketches a sloppy salute to him before running off.)  
  
SHEPPARD (into radio): Elizabeth -- I need you to keep the Gate open until the
last of them go through, then shut it down and dial Atlantis.  
  
WEIR: We can land and pick you up.  
  
SHEPPARD: Negative -- just keep the Gate open. We'll take it from there. Stay
in stealth mode until the Wraith have gone away.  
  
WEIR: Acknowledged.  
  
(On the island, the prisoners are all running towards the Gate. In the Jumper,
John looks out of the window.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Here comes another cruiser.  
  
(In the distance, we hear the Gate shut down.)  
  
(In Jumper Two)  
  
WEIR (to Lorne): Dial Atlantis. (Lorne starts to dial. Elizabeth speaks into
the radio.) We're dialling -- head for the Gate.  
  
(The team, together with Eldon, run for the Gate. Above them, as the damaged
cruiser limps away with smoke trailing from it, a second cruiser starts to
descend and fires at the fleeing team. Luckily, as usual, they couldn't hit
the side of a barn door if they tried and the shots explode nearby but don't
hit anyone. The team reach the Gate and throw themselves in as one last lucky
blast hits the ground at the foot of the Gate just a moment too late for the
Wraith.)  
  
(In Jumper Two)  
  
LORNE: They're through.  
  
(Elizabeth leans back in her seat and sighs in relief. Nearby, the cruiser
turns and leaves the area.)  
  
  
OLESIA CITY. The Magistrate runs to a window and puts his hand over his mouth,
staring in horror as the cruiser descends over the city.

