ATLANTIS. INFIRMARY ISOLATION ROOM. A man in his mid thirties wakes up with a
gasp in a hospital bed. He looks around the room, apparently confused as to
where he is. He looks down at his hands, then stares around the room again.
There is no-one in sight but he is surrounded by several monitors, most of
them turned away from him so he can't see what they are showing.  
  
  
ELIZABETH'S OFFICE. As Doctor Elizabeth Weir works at her desk, Doctor Carson
Beckett reports to her over the radio.  
  
BECKETT: Elizabeth?  
  
(Elizabeth activates her headset radio.)  
  
WEIR: Yes, Carson?  
  
BECKETT: He's awake.  
  
  
ISOLATION ROOM. The man is now sitting up on the bed. Carson is shining a
penlight into his left eye, then flicking it away again, then shining it into
his eye again. The doors to the room open and Elizabeth comes in, accompanied
by Lieutenant Colonel John Sheppard. They walk across to the bed as Carson
talks to the man.  
  
BECKETT: Blood pressure's fine, pulse normal. You're bouncing back quite
nicely.  
  
MICHAEL: Bouncing back from what?  
  
WEIR: Hullo, Michael. (She smiles at him.) D'you remember me?  
  
(Michael looks at her for a moment, then shakes his head.)  
  
MICHAEL: No.  
  
WEIR: I'm Doctor Elizabeth Weir. This is Lieutenant Colonel John Sheppard.  
  
SHEPPARD: You serve under my command.  
  
(Michael looks at him blankly.)  
  
WEIR: Do you know where you are?  
  
MICHAEL: I don't even know who I am!  
  
WEIR: Your name is Lieutenant Michael Kenmore. You're in a private room off
the Infirmary here in Atlantis.  
  
(Michael lifts his head as if he recognises that last word.)  
  
WEIR: Is that familiar to you?  
  
MICHAEL: Atlantis. Yeah ... I think.  
  
SHEPPARD: You're a member of a team that went offworld. You were captured by
the Wraith.  
  
(Michael looks away as if lost in thought.)  
  
BECKETT: I see you remember the Wraith.  
  
(Michael looks at him.)  
  
MICHAEL: What did they do to me?  
  
WEIR: We're not quite sure yet.  
  
SHEPPARD: We sent a rescue team for you but, um, you were wounded during the
mission.  
  
BECKETT: You've been unconscious for days now -- had us worried sick.  
  
MICHAEL: Why can't I remember anything?  
  
BECKETT: We don't know yet. Hopefully we'll learn more as we conduct further
tests.  
  
WEIR: And in the meantime, I can assure you that we will give you the best
possible care to help in your recovery.  
  
  
ABOVE THE ISOLATION ROOM. In an observation room similar to the one above the
operating room we saw in "Coup D'Etat", two marines are watching a bank of
screens. They show several different angles of the Isolation Room below.
Elizabeth, John and Carson walk in, go to the window and look down at Michael
lying in bed. Elizabeth sighs.  
  
WEIR: Keep a close eye on him. Until we know more, we need to proceed with
caution. (Carson nods.) This may just be the start of our problems.  
  
  
LATER. In the Isolation Room, Carson is standing at Michael's bedside with his
back to the bed as he turns the dial on a device that looks a little like a
fountain pen. He turns to the bed. Michael looks at the device.  
  
MICHAEL: What is that?  
  
(Carson puts the tip of the device on Michael's right arm and presses the
plunger.)  
  
BECKETT: I'm afraid you have type one diabetes. You require a daily injection
of insulin to maintain a normal blood glucose level. You've managed it quite
nicely, actually.  
  
(Michael looks away, lost in thought.)  
  
BECKETT: Michael, we believe you may be suffering from what's called
generalised dissociative amnesia, which usually occurs as a result of
significant trauma.  
  
MICHAEL: Trauma caused by the Wraith?  
  
BECKETT: We don't know for certain. Hopefully, over time, your memory will
return. In the meantime, we'll do our best to help you fill in the gaps -- a
wee bit at a time so as not to completely overwhelm you.  
  
(Michael smiles ruefully.)  
  
MICHAEL: I'm already completely overwhelmed. How much worse can it get?  
  
(Carson smiles and pats his shoulder, then turns away. His smile fades.)  
  
  
OBSERVATION ROOM. Teyla Emmagan comes in and looks at Carson, who is sitting
studying a laptop computer.  
  
TEYLA: I heard he was awake.  
  
BECKETT: Aye. Complete amnesia. Doesn't remember a thing.  
  
(Teyla walks over to the window to look down at Michael. Carson stands up and
walks over to join her.)  
  
TEYLA: May I speak with him?  
  
BECKETT: Of course.  
  
(Teyla nods, looks down into the room again, then looks at Carson.)  
  
TEYLA: You need to rest.  
  
(Carson nods wearily.)  
  
  
ISOLATION ROOM. Michael is sitting up on the bed. The doors open and Teyla
walks in. An armed guard is standing outside the room.  
  
TEYLA: Hullo, Michael. (She smiles as she walks over to him.) I am Teyla.  
  
(Michael turns to look at her.)  
  
MICHAEL: You look familiar. Do I know you?  
  
TEYLA: Yes. You assisted my team on a few missions.  
  
MICHAEL: There's more, though. (He looks at her as if trying to work out how
he remembers her.) Are ... are we friends?  
  
TEYLA (smiling): Yes.  
  
(Michael laughs.)  
  
MICHAEL: That's the best news I've heard all day!  
  
TEYLA: How are you feeling?  
  
MICHAEL: Oh -- physically fine, but my mind is completely blank. They said I'm
a lieutenant.  
  
TEYLA (nodding): You have only recently arrived in Atlantis but you have
already proven yourself to be one of the finest soldiers in this city.  
  
MICHAEL: Well, if I'm such a fine soldier, how did I get captured by the
Wraith?  
  
TEYLA: Your team came upon a landed Wraith cruiser and were ambushed. You
sacrificed yourself in order to give your team mates time to escape. Quite
heroic.  
  
MICHAEL: Were you part of the team that rescued me?  
  
TEYLA: Yes.  
  
MICHAEL: Well, then that makes you even more heroic.  
  
(He smiles at her. Teyla grins back at him.)  
  
  
CONFERENCE ROOM. Teyla is reporting to Elizabeth, Carson, John and Doctor Kate
Heightmeyer, the base's psychologist.  
  
TEYLA: He said I was familiar to him. He asked if we were friends.  
  
WEIR: How did you respond?  
  
TEYLA: I said we were. After everything he has been through, I thought some
positive news could not hurt.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: I think you're right. Stabilisation is the first critical stage
in his psychological treatment. (She turns to Elizabeth.) He's doing quite
well so far, but it's important we do what we can to ease his recovery.  
  
WEIR: What's the next stage?  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: Integration into the community, (John grimaces) followed by
relational development.  
  
WEIR (to Carson): How is he doing physically?  
  
BECKETT: Excellent. Vitals normal. All he needs is a bit of physical therapy
to regain muscle tone and coordination.  
  
WEIR: Do you think he's ready to be released?  
  
BECKETT: I do.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't think that's such a good idea. We still don't know if there
are any residual effects he might be carrying around.  
  
(Elizabeth turns to Kate.)  
  
WEIR: What do you think, Doctor? Is he ready to join the community?  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: A change of scenery could be very beneficial to him.  
  
WEIR: Alright, then. (She turns back to Carson.) Release him.  
  
(John looks away, apparently unhappy with her decision.)  
  
  
SOME TIME LATER. Teyla leads Michael, followed by two guards, to a glass door
and opens it for him. They go inside, Teyla smiling back at the guards who
wait outside. Michael walks into the room and looks around.  
  
TEYLA: These are your quarters.  
  
(In the Observation Room, an airman and another guy, possibly a scientist, are
watching Michael's quarters on closed circuit TV. The quarters have cameras
watching all angles. John stands behind the two men, watching the screens.)  
  
TEYLA: Does any of this look familiar to you?  
  
MICHAEL: No. (He walks over to a table and picks up a cowboy hat which is
lying on it. He looks at Teyla questioningly.)  
  
TEYLA: It is a cowboy hat. (She takes the hat from him.) You come from a place
called Texas.  
  
(Michael shakes his head at her blankly as she hands the hat back to him.)  
  
MICHAEL: Texas. (Teyla nods.) Hmm.  
  
(He puts the hat down and continues looking around the room. On another table
is a framed photograph of a man and woman in their sixties. He picks it up and
again looks at Teyla.)  
  
TEYLA: They are your parents.  
  
(Michael stares at the photograph for a moment, then looks at Teyla again,
obviously not recognising them.)  
  
  
COMMISSARY. Doctor Rodney McKay is sitting at a table and has just finished
his meal. He stands up as a member of the commissary staff comes over to clear
his table.  
  
McKAY: Ah. Hey, what happened to the, um, to the blue jello? (He points down
to his tray where he has left some red jello.) My favourite -- all of a sudden
it's off the menu. What gives?  
  
(The man shrugs and walks away.)  
  
McKAY: Thank you!  
  
(An Australian woman in military uniform walks over and takes the seat next to
Rodney. He looks round at her and rolls his eyes, then picks up his computer
tablet and walks away as she beckons someone to come and join her. Rodney
walks a few paces, then hesitates at what he sees in front of him. He takes a
deep breath and keeps walking, going over to Michael who is sitting at a table
alone and eating. Two guards stand nearby.)  
  
McKAY: Ah. Lieutenant Kenmore.  
  
(Michael looks up at him.)  
  
MICHAEL: So they tell me. Call me Michael.  
  
McKAY: Michael. Right, yes, of course. Michael.  
  
(He looks at him a little uncomfortably.)  
  
MICHAEL: I'm sorry. Um, I'm probably supposed to know you but ...  
  
McKAY: Right, right, the amnesia. Yes, of course, I heard. (He holds out his
right hand.) I'm, uh, Doctor McKay. (Michael wipes his hands on his trousers.)
Rodney McKay. Doctor.  
  
(Michael stands and takes his hand, shaking it. He looks down at Rodney's hand
curiously, though it's not clear why -- perhaps Rodney doesn't grasp his hand
as he was expecting.)  
  
McKAY (as they release hands and Michael sits down again): So, you've been,
um, released, I see. (He looks at the guard standing opposite Michael.)  
  
MICHAEL: Just now, but I have some bodyguards following me around everywhere,
and Colonel Sheppard's probably somewhere close by. They wanna keep an eye on
me in case I suddenly, um ... freak out.  
  
(He smiles down at his tray. Rodney laughs falsely.)  
  
McKAY: Yes, freak out, yes. (His smile fades.) Well, I don't think you're
gonna ... you're not gonna ... You're fine, aren't you?  
  
MICHAEL: I think so. I feel fine. I guess time will tell. Hopefully the
amnesia won't be permanent.  
  
(He looks at the screen of the tablet that Rodney is holding.)  
  
MICHAEL: Wraith materialiser schematics?  
  
McKAY: Yes. Yes, I was just, um ... just studying them, you know?  
  
(Michael looks puzzled.)  
  
MICHAEL: How did I know that?  
  
McKAY: Um, one of your team's mission objectives was to, um, infiltrate, um
... (he appears to be thinking quickly) ... a Wraith ship and obtain, um ...
(he looks round to the guard as if for help but the guard is gazing off into
the distance and taking no notice of him) ... you know ... uh, intelligence.  
  
MICHAEL: And our mission was successful?  
  
McKAY: Yes, very successful.  
  
MICHAEL: Except for getting captured.  
  
McKAY: Ah, well, we've, uh, we've all been captured by the Wraith at one point
or another, haven't we? It's just, uh, the important thing is that you were
rescued, safe and sound.  
  
MICHAEL: Safe, yes. The sound part I'm not so sure of.  
  
(He smiles. Rodney chuckles nervously.)  
  
McKAY: Y-Yeah, well ... it's ... um ... (He trails off, desperately trying to
think of something to say.)  
  
MICHAEL: Well, um, I guess I'd better be going.  
  
McKAY: Right. You got it.  
  
(Michael stands and walks away, accompanied by his guards.)  
  
MICHAEL: See ya.  
  
(Rodney watches him walk away, then looks down at the computer tablet. All the
writing on it is in Wraith.)  
  
  
GYM. Teyla is coaching Michael in Athosian hand to hand combat techniques. As
she does each move, she tells him what to do.  
  
TEYLA: Defend. Defend. Parry, strike ...  
  
(So far he has fended off each punch but now she whirls, her arms moving
almost too fast to see, and, fending off his blows, drops to one knee and
punches him in one knee. As he cries out in pain, she rises up quickly and,
standing on one leg while holding him by the arms, brings her other thigh up
and rams it into his stomach. While he is still off balance she spins him
around and slams her leg into his chest, knocking him to the floor.)  
  
MICHAEL: Ow!  
  
TEYLA: It is all about catching your opponent off balance.  
  
(Michael gets up onto his knees and looks up at her.)  
  
MICHAEL: You succeeded! (He gets to his feet, out of breath.)  
  
TEYLA: Now you try.  
  
(Michael laughs ruefully.)  
  
MICHAEL: I can't do that move. (He bends over, still trying to catch his
breath.)  
  
TEYLA: Oh yes you can.  
  
MICHAEL: You keep saying I'm a good fighter.  
  
TEYLA: You are. Very good.  
  
(Michael shrugs, straightening up.)  
  
MICHAEL: Alright.  
  
(He starts to attack her, doing the same moves that she just taught him.
Although she fends off each blow, he is obviously starting to get the hang of
it.)  
  
MICHAEL (pleased with himself): Hey!  
  
(Teyla comes at him. They parry for a few moments, then she does a move which
she obviously expected would get through his defence, but he blocks her. He
laughs delightedly. Teyla comes at him again. This time as she tries to bring
her knee up, he grabs it, stopping the blow, then releases her. She spins and
tries to slam her leg across his stomach again but this time Michael is ready,
grabs it and uses her momentum to slam her down to the floor on her back. He
follows her down, shoving the palm of his hand onto her chest to hold her
down. Teyla's eyes widen in fear but Michael doesn't notice.)  
  
MICHAEL (laughing in delight): Woo! Wow, are you alright?! I can't believe I
...  
  
(A pair of hands grabs him from behind. It's Ronon Dex, who hauls him off
Teyla, drags him across the gym floor and, with a roar of rage, slams him hard
against the wall by the throat.)  
  
DEX: Keep your hands off her!  
  
(Teyla scrambles to her feet.)  
  
TEYLA: Ronon! We were sparring as part of his physical therapy. Let him go.  
  
(Ronon continues to hold Michael against the wall, half strangling him.)  
  
TEYLA: NOW!  
  
(Ronon, his face contorted in a snarl, releases Michael and walks away without
a word.)  
  
MICHAEL (holding his throat): I'm sorry.  
  
  
KATE'S OFFICE. Kate and Michael are sitting opposite each other.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: Ronon is fairly new here in Atlantis. He's still making the
adjustment to our way of doing things. He's clashed a few times with some of
the personnel, including yourself, and even Colonel Sheppard.  
  
MICHAEL: I'll just have to stay clear of him. Whatever I did to make him
angry, he doesn't look like the kind of person you wanna have as an enemy!  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: Give him time. I'm sure you'll work out your differences, put the
past behind you.  
  
MICHAEL: The past -- whatever that is. It-it's just so frustrating. I didn't
even remember the faces of my own parents.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: They've been informed of your condition. In time we'll send you
home to be reunited with them, but for now I think it's best if we hold off.  
  
MICHAEL: So what do you think? Will my memory ever return?  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: We can't be sure. But we'll continue with these sessions, perhaps
even try hypnosis.  
  
(Michael looks wistful.)  
  
MICHAEL: I just wanna get back to normal -- be like everybody else.  
  
  
DREAM SEQUENCE. Looking through the eyes of the dreamer, we are walking
through a Wraith ship. Other Wraith can be seen.  
  
(Michael jerks awake in his bed, gasping for breath. He stares into the room,
then breathes out in relief. He gets out of bed and walks over to a small
table with a jug of water on it. He pours himself a glass, then turns to face
the mirror on the wall. A Wraith stares back at him, roaring.)  
  
(Michael jerks awake in his bed, gasping for breath. He stares into the room,
then breathes out in relief.)  
  
  
MORNING. Michael and Teyla are sitting in the gym.  
  
MICHAEL: It was so real. I-I know it was a dream but when I saw that face
staring back at me ... They did something to me, didn't they -- the Wraith,
during my capture? They did something to my mind. Maybe -- maybe they
implanted something into my brain. (He looks at Teyla.) What did they do?
(Teyla looks worried.) Tell me.  
  
TEYLA: We do not know. (Michael looks away.) Listen: many people here have had
such dreams. You are not the only one.  
  
MICHAEL: Really?  
  
TEYLA (nodding): The constant fear of the Wraith attacking and the way they
feed on us -- it creates a tremendous amount of stress.  
  
MICHAEL: You've had the dream too?  
  
TEYLA: Yes. Many times. (Michael sighs.) And I know how frightening it can be.  
  
  
OBSERVATION ROOM. As John and Rodney continue to watch Michael on the
monitors, Teyla reports her conversation. Elizabeth, Carson and Ronon are also
in the room.  
  
WEIR: He's only had the one dream?  
  
TEYLA: Yes. He believes the Wraith did something to him during his capture.  
  
WEIR (to Carson): Can you do something to help him?  
  
BECKETT: Perhaps I can give him a sedative to help him sleep. Or I could
increase his dosage, although I question against it at this time.  
  
McKAY: Why? If it's helping, what's wrong with giving him more?  
  
BECKETT: Because, Rodney, I specifically calibrated his regimen according to
his current physical condition. Any alteration could adversely affect his
recovery. I say we remain patient -- wait to see if he has any more dreams. If
it's merely psychological, then Doctor Heightmeyer should be able to help him
through it.  
  
TEYLA: Why do we not just tell him the truth? I am finding it difficult
keeping it from him, and I am beginning to question whether our course of
action is the correct one.  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. MICHAEL'S QUARTERS. Michael lies in bed asleep, but he is very
restless. He jerks awake gasping, so has probably had the dream again. He
looks into the mirror opposite his bed but can only see his own face.  
  
  
DAY TIME. KATE'S OFFICE. Michael is standing at the window gazing out of the
city. His face is anguished.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: The dreams are most likely due to post traumatic stress -- not at
all uncommon in situations like yours. You can see Doctor Beckett after you
leave -- have him prescribe something for sleep.  
  
MICHAEL: I just -- I can't help thinking there's more to it. Something's not
right with me.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: Do you feel sick?  
  
MICHAEL: No! I mean, (he turns from the window to face her) I feel like ... I
don't know what it is but ... it's not right. It's not. (He sits down.)
Everyone around here -- I get the feeling like they know something --
something they're not telling me.  
  
(Kate sits back in her chair, looking worried. Michael points at her
triumphantly.)  
  
MICHAEL: See? That -- your _expression. I see that a lot around here. People
being careful with me, like they're trying to figure out what to say next.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: And you think this means that they're keeping secrets from you?  
  
MICHAEL: Maybe not deliberately, but yes. I get the feeling they know
something about me but aren't telling me. And it's frustrating, because if the
Wraith did something to me, I'd really like to know what it is.  
  
  
CORRIDORS. Michael, followed as always by his guards, is walking through the
corridor when he sees John and Ronon approaching.  
  
SHEPPARD: Lieutenant.  
  
MICHAEL: Colonel.  
  
SHEPPARD: Where you off to?  
  
MICHAEL: My quarters. Doctor Beckett gave me some pills, help me get some
sleep. (He takes the bottle of pills out of his pocket and shows them to
John.) Thought I'd give em a try. (He smiles and puts them away again.)  
  
SHEPPARD (smiling): No alcohol or heavy machinery.  
  
MICHAEL (confused): Excuse me?  
  
SHEPPARD: Nothin'. Sleep well.  
  
(Ronon starts to move off but Michael moves to block his path.)  
  
MICHAEL: Hey, Ronon. Um, I don't know what happened between us in the past,
but if I ever did anything to hurt or upset you, I just wanted to say that ...
(he holds out his right hand) ... I'm sorry.  
  
(Ronon glares at him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Ronon, shake the man's hand.  
  
DEX: I don't think so.  
  
(Michael looks upset but continues to hold his hand out.)  
  
SHEPPARD (to Ronon): He's trying to bury the hatchet. It's not a bad idea,
don't you think?  
  
DEX: I gotta go.  
  
(He moves to walk past Michael but again Michael blocks his path.)  
  
MICHAEL: Look, I just wanna know ...  
  
(Without warning, Ronon punches him hard in the face. Instinctively, Michael
punches back at him. Ronon ducks the punch and hits him hard in the stomach.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Knock it off!  
  
(One of the guards grabs Michael and pushes him against the wall, while
Sheppard steps into Ronon's way and holds out his hand to fend him off. The
other guard and a marine who was nearby grab Ronon's arms and pull him back.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Knock it off. (He looks at Michael, who is looking at Ronon, ready
to go again, then turns and glares at Ronon.)  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. MICHAEL'S QUARTERS. Michael lies restless and unable to sleep.
Eventually he sighs and gets out of bed. He walks to the door and opens it,
approaching his two guards.  
  
COLE: Lieutenant Kenmore. What are you doing up so late?  
  
MICHAEL: The pills Doctor Beckett gave me aren't working. I'm gonna go to the
Infirmary.  
  
COLE: After you.  
  
(They head off.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Michael walks in as the guards wait in the doorway. He says hullo
to a passing nurse and walks towards Carson who is sitting with his back to
him at a desk at the far end of the room.  
  
MICHAEL: Doctor Beckett.  
  
(Carson doesn't respond. Michael walks over to him and sees that he is asleep
with one hand propping up his head. Unsure whether to wake him or not, Michael
looks around. He notices a wall calendar hanging above Carson's desk. It is of
"Scenic Scotland" and shows a picture of sheep in a country lane. The month is
July 2005 and on one of the days, Carson has written "Dinner with Cadman".
[Transcriber's note: Carson really needs to stop calling his girlfriend by her
surname!] It's not the date that attracts Michael's attention, however. The
location of the country lane is given as "Kenmore". Michael reaches out to
touch the word, bewildered. He looks round to the guards, who are standing in
the doorway chatting to the nurse and taking no notice of him. He turns back
to the table and bends down to a laptop computer on the desk. He types, but a
message comes up seeking his password. He glances across at Carson to check
that he is still asleep, then goes across to a trolley beside the desk which
has some CDs on it. He lifts one up to look at what is written on it, puts it
down and picks up a black plastic case containing several CDs. He flicks
through the case. Each disk is labelled "DAY TEN, DAY FOUR, DAY FIVE" etc and
underneath, "PATIENT #4364". He closes the case and looks at the cover. It is
labelled "PATIENT #4364: 1Lt. Michael Kenmore".)  
  
  
MICHAEL'S QUARTERS. Michael goes back into his room, leaving his guards
outside. He walks into the centre of the room and looks up at one of the
closed circuit cameras on the wall. He walks over to his desk, picks up a
laptop computer and walks over to a sofa. Sitting down and opening the
computer, he looks across to a small spotlight standing on the floor and
pointing towards the sofa. Suspecting that it too might be a camera, he turns
to face it and puts the computer down on the sofa so that its screen is facing
away from the spotlight.  
  
(In the Observation Room, a marine watches what he is doing. Suspecting that
he is up to something, he gets up and leaves the room while the other marine
flicks through all the camera angles trying unsuccessfully to get a good shot
of the laptop's screen.)  
  
(In his room, Michael gets the CD case out from under his top, unzips it and
takes out the CD labelled DAY TWELVE. He feeds it into the computer. He looks
up at the spotlight/camera, then watches the computer as the CD begins to
play. It shows a close up of Michael lying unconscious in bed in the Isolation
Room. Carson reaches out and adjusts the flow of a drip.)  
  
BECKETT (onscreen): Delta wave frequencies are at two point nine Hertz.  
  
(Elizabeth and John are also in the Isolation Room.)  
  
WEIR: Which means?  
  
BECKETT: He may regain consciousness soon.  
  
(Michael ejects the disk and exchanges it for the one labelled DAY TEN. This
one shows Michael tethered to the bed, screaming and writhing. Carson runs to
his bedside, then calls out for something.)  
  
BECKETT: Five milligrams!  
  
(Michael stares in shock, then inserts the disk labelled DAY SEVEN. This shows
Michael writhing on the bed, desperately trying to pull his hands free of the
tethers. He calls out, his voice deeper than normal.)  
  
MICHAEL: Release me! (He roars and cries out in anguish as Carson tries to
calm him.)  
  
(Michael inserts the disk labelled DAY ONE. He stares in horror as the disk
starts to play. We hear a deep voice roaring.)  
  
VOICE: Arggh! You will die for this! Others will come for me! They will
destroy you!  
  
(We see the screen. It's a high shot of the Isolation Room. John and Ronon are
holding someone down on the bed but we can't see who it is.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Blah, blah, blah.  
  
DEX: They have to find us first.  
  
(The person on the bed roars in rage.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You're gonna need a name. How does Mike sound?  
  
(The camera angle changes and shows who is on the bed. It's a Wraith. In his
quarters, Michael reaches out and hits the pause button, staring in horror.
Just then, Carson and several guards burst in through the door of his
quarters. Michael stares at up them, then turns the computer around to show
the screen to Carson. Carson stares, appalled that he has found out the
truth.)  
  
  
EARLY MORNING. Atlantis is swathed in fog. [The CG people deserve awards for
these new shots.] MICHAEL'S QUARTERS. John and Elizabeth have arrived. Michael
is on his feet and is staring at them in anguish.  
  
MICHAEL: You lied to me. I'm a Wraith.  
  
WEIR: You were a Wraith, yes. Michael, please ...  
  
MICHAEL: Don't call me that. That's not my name.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, take it easy. (He puts his hand on his holstered pistol.)  
  
WEIR: If you would let us explain?  
  
MICHAEL (angrily): Go ahead. Explain. But no more lies.  
  
WEIR: Alright. This is what we know of the Wraith: they evolved from a
creature that we call the iratus bug. Now that bug began taking on
characteristics of the humans it was feeding on and, over time, became the
Wraith that we know now. So Doctor Beckett has developed a drug.  
  
BECKETT: It's a retrovirus designed to suppress the iratus bug elements of the
Wraith genetic code, leaving only the human aspects behind. It took some time
to perfect but we finally achieved a viable drug, which we then decided to
test.  
  
MICHAEL: The injections? Insulin?  
  
BECKETT: Not insulin. I'm sorry. You see, once the retrovirus was administered
and the transformation begun, another drug was needed to prevent the Wraith
elements from returning. It's actually a combination of drugs which
unfortunately require a daily injection.  
  
MICHAEL: So what are you saying, that-that being a Wraith is some kind of
disease -- something you think you can cure? What gives you the right to do
this to me?  
  
SHEPPARD: We're at war. The Wraith will stop at nothing to kill every one of
us. And we'll stop at nothing to make sure that doesn't happen.  
  
MICHAEL: You made up everything: my name, the photograph of my parents.  
  
WEIR: It was my decision to keep the truth from you.  
  
MICHAEL (angrily): Why?  
  
WEIR: For a while, we were concerned that if you were told, you may react the
way you are now.  
  
SHEPPARD: The whole point was to erase any trace of Wraith inside you, not to
keep reminding you of it. And trust me, you're a helluva lot better off now
than you were before.  
  
(Michael snorts, but doesn't meet anyone's eyes.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You sense we're telling the truth.  
  
  
CONFERENCE ROOM.  
  
DEX: This whole thing was a bad idea.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, it wasn't. The retrovirus works -- that much is clear. Just look
at the guy. (Ronon narrows his eyes at him.) If we can figure out how to
deploy this as a biological weapon, it's possible that we can hit entire hive
ships and turn them into humans.  
  
BECKETT: That's still a ways off, and I've yet to develop an effective long
term dose to keep the Wraith elements suppressed for a lifetime.  
  
WEIR: But the point is, we are getting closer.  
  
DEX: You know, you may be able to make him look like a human, talk like a
human, but he'll still be a Wraith. Nothing you do will ever change that.  
  
  
MICHAEL'S QUARTERS. Michael is sitting on the end of the bed, lost in thought.
Teyla walks in.  
  
TEYLA: Michael? (He ignores her.) I know you are angry. I am sorry for what
you have been put through. But, in time, I think you may come to see this as
...  
  
MICHAEL (interrupting): Were you part of the team that captured me?  
  
(He finally meets her eyes. Teyla hesitates. Michael looks away, knowing what
the answer is.)  
  
MICHAEL: You told me before that you and your team rescued me when I was
captured by the Wraith. But now I'm starting to realise you did the actual
capture. (He looks up at her.) And you have the nerve to tell me you're my
friend.  
  
(Teyla walks closer.)  
  
TEYLA: I would like to be your friend. I would.  
  
MICHAEL: You expect me to believe that?  
  
TEYLA: You may not understand this now but making you human ... I believe this
could make your life better.  
  
MICHAEL (sarcastically): Really? Because from what I was told, you made me
human in order to make your lives better.  
  
(Teyla stares at him, unable to argue against that.)  
  
MICHAEL: So tell me then: what makes being human better than being a Wraith?  
  
TEYLA: They are evil. They kill us, feed on us, show no mercy, know nothing of
compassion ...  
  
MICHAEL: And humans are different?  
  
TEYLA: Yes.  
  
MICHAEL: So what you did to me -- that was done out of compassion?!  
  
(Again, Teyla cannot answer.)  
  
  
KATE'S OFFICE. Kate and Michael talk as guards stand outside the open door.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: Your feelings of betrayal are understandable, but it's important
you talk about them -- hopefully come to resolve them.  
  
MICHAEL: With you?  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: Yes. Of course.  
  
MICHAEL: I already tried that once -- it didn't work out so well. But
something was cleared up for me, though. Now I know what that strange feeling
was, the one that's been ... gnawing inside of me. Seems I can't shake those
basic Wraith instincts. (He turns his head and looks at her.) Hunger,
aggression -- and now that I know the truth, I feel them even more.  
  
  
OBSERVATION ROOM. Elizabeth, Carson, John and Teyla are watching Michael in
his room.  
  
WEIR: Doctor Heightmeyer confirmed he believes he's still experiencing Wraith
compulsions. Is there anything more you can do to help suppress them?  
  
BECKETT: I don't know. It could merely be a psychological manifestation.  
  
SHEPPARD: Maybe we should up his dose. (Everybody looks at him.) Yeah, I know
you said give it more time, but now that he knows what's going on, things
might start going from bad to worse.  
  
WEIR: I agree.  
  
BECKETT: He's due for his next injection now. I could go ahead and increase
the dosage, monitor him closely.  
  
WEIR: Let's just hope he agrees to take it.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, if he doesn't, we'll have to insist. (Carson looks at him,
startled.) Who knows -- maybe another big dose might wipe his memory clean
again.  
  
TEYLA: And then what? We start the lies all over again?  
  
  
MICHAEL'S QUARTERS. Sergeant Cole comes in.  
  
COLE: They want you in the Infirmary. Time for your injection.  
  
  
CORRIDORS. Sergeant Cole precedes Michael along the corridor and up some
stairs. The other guard follows, but then is relieved by a new guard who takes
his place. Ronon falls in behind him. Michael glances round at the two men
following him. When he reaches the top of the stairs, he stops and turns round
to face Ronon.  
  
COLE: What are you doing?  
  
(Michael walks down a couple of steps and looks at Ronon.)  
  
MICHAEL: What do you want from me?  
  
(Ronon smiles unpleasantly.)  
  
DEX: Just waiting for you to give me a reason to kill you.  
  
(Michael nods.)  
  
MICHAEL: I guess I should thank you. You're the only one around here who's
been honest with me from the start.  
  
COLE: Lieutenant Kenmore. The Infirmary?  
  
DEX: You heard him. Better get moving ... (sarcastically) ... Lieutenant.  
  
(Michael looks at him for a moment, then slowly turns to face Cole and the
other guard. Without warning, he grabs Cole and hurls him down the stairs into
Ronon, then grabs the other guard and slams him face first into the wall. He
grabs the guard's pistol out of its holster and tosses him into Ronon and Cole
before racing off. Ronon shoves the guard aside, draws his blaster and fires
towards Michael as he chases off after him. Cole checks on his colleague.)  
  
COLE (into radio): This is Sergeant Cole. Kenmore's escaped. Level five, east
tower. (He draws his Wraith stunner and follows after Ronon and Michael as the
other guard struggles to his feet.) Ronon's also in pursuit.  
  
  
Ronon races down some stairs, looking for Michael. Nearby, Cole and his
colleague come down another set of stairs. Cole gestures to his colleague to
go in one direction while he heads off in another. He checks around carefully
but Michael steps out of dark cover beside him, aiming his pistol at him.  
  
MICHAEL: Drop your weapon.  
  
(Cole freezes, not turning to face him.)  
  
COLE: Just take it easy, Lieutenant.  
  
MICHAEL: Stop calling me that. Drop your weapon.  
  
(Cole starts to lower his stunner, then spins and aims his stunner at Michael.
Michael fires four quick shots and Cole crashes to the ground. Michael stares
in horror at what he has done. He walks over and squats down to Cole, who is
lying on the floor staring up at him in agony. Michael puts his hand on one of
the gunshot wounds, lifts his hand and looks at the blood, then raises his
fingers to his face and smells them. He stands and turns to walk away, only to
find Ronon's blaster pointed at his face. Before Ronon can fire, a Wraith
stunner blast hits Michael from behind. Michael convulses and drops to the
floor. John races up, grabs Ronon's blaster and looks at the setting before
giving him a black look.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I figured you'd forget to set it to stun.  
  
(Teyla runs over and squats down to Cole, whose eyes are now closed.)  
  
TEYLA: Sergeant Cole. (She puts her fingers on his neck, then looks up at the
others.) He is dead.  
  
  
BRIG. Michael is standing in the cell with the forcefield activated around it.  
  
  
CONFERENCE ROOM.  
  
WEIR: We can't keep him here, even locked up. It's too dangerous.  
  
SHEPPARD: We can take him to the Alpha site. We'll sedate him first so he
won't know where it is.  
  
DEX: And then what?  
  
WEIR: Continue with the drug treatments.  
  
(Ronon smiles bitterly.)  
  
DEX: Continue?  
  
WEIR: Doctor Beckett was about to start increasing the dosage. Hopefully that
will be effective in eliminating any remaining Wraith impulses.  
  
DEX: Why are we even talking about this? He killed one of your people. Your
experiment didn't work. We should kill him right now.  
  
HEIGHTMEYER: We can't kill him, Ronon. We're the ones who put him in this
position.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hold on a minute, Doc. If we hadn't given him the retrovirus, he'd
still be a Wraith. We wouldn't think twice about killing him.  
  
TEYLA: But we did give him the retrovirus. We made him human. Now we have the
responsibility to treat him as we would any other ...  
  
DEX (interrupting): He's not human. He's a Wraith.  
  
(The others think about it for a moment, then Elizabeth turns to Carson.)  
  
WEIR: Carson, what do you think? Is it worth continuing with these treatments?  
  
BECKETT: I, uh ... I don't know. I ... suppose it's worth seeing how he fares
with the increased dosage.  
  
WEIR: I agree. We've come too far with this just to abandon it now.  
  
(Ronon stares at her bitterly. Carson looks anguished.)  
  
  
BRIG. Michael is pacing slowly around the cell but stops and turns as the door
to the Brig opens. Teyla walks in and addresses the two guards.  
  
TEYLA: Would you please step outside?  
  
(They nod and leave the room but stand just outside with the door open. Teyla
walks over to the cell.)  
  
MICHAEL: What's going to happen to me?  
  
TEYLA: You will be transported to another planet where we are establishing an
offworld base.  
  
(Michael speaks quietly, upset.)  
  
MICHAEL: You want to keep me from learning more about Atlantis. You're afraid
that if a Wraith ship comes close enough, I'll communicate with them -- tell
them you're here. (Teyla looks at him, not needing to answer. Michael looks
anguished.) I didn't want to kill him. I just wanted to escape, to get out of
this place.  
  
TEYLA: We would like to continue the drug treatments. (Michael closes his
eyes.) Doctor Beckett believes that an increased dose would fully suppress any
Wraith urges you may still be experiencing. (Michael lowers his head.) The
alternative is death.  
  
  
GATEROOM. Carson is supervising his team as they carry equipment ready to take
offworld. He talks with a German man.  
  
BECKETT: All of this up to the Jumper Bay. The E.E.G., defib, cardiograph. Oh,
cross-check the medications on the list I gave you -- make certain we're good
for at least a week. (He stops to talk with Elizabeth as the team carry their
gear up the stairs.) We've got a lot of equipment to take with us. From what I
understand, the Alpha site's not exactly set up for this kind of work.  
  
WEIR: It's not set up for much of anything yet, I'm afraid. Hey, how are you
holding up?  
  
BECKETT (sarcastically): Oh, I don't know -- because of me, a man is dead.  
  
WEIR: You can't blame yourself for that.  
  
BECKETT: Elizabeth, I'm the one who developed the retrovirus. I'm the one who
pushed for this experiment. Of course I'm to blame.  
  
WEIR: And I'm the one who approved it. This was my call, Carson, so if there's
any blame to be laid, it starts and ends with me, alright?  
  
(Carson looks away. He clearly doesn't feel any better.)  
  
  
BRIG. Michael is sitting on the floor in the corner of the cell. The shield
around the cell turns off. Michael scrambles to his feet as the cell door
opens and John approaches.  
  
MICHAEL: Colonel.  
  
SHEPPARD: Time to go.  
  
(He raises a Wraith stunner pistol and shoots Michael, who drops to the floor.
A medical team runs in with a gurney. Carson runs over to Michael and injects
him in the neck.)  
  
BECKETT: Clear.  
  
(A couple of medics pick Michael up and put him on the gurney.)  
  
  
WORMHOLE TRAVEL.  
  
  
ALPHA SITE. Michael wakes up lying on a bed in a metal hut.  
  
TEYLA: It is alright. You are safe.  
  
(Michael looks around to see her sitting nearby.)  
  
MICHAEL: What happened?  
  
TEYLA: You were sedated for transport to the Alpha site.  
  
(Michael tries to sit up but finds that his hands and feet are tethered to the
bed.)  
  
TEYLA: Just a precaution. (Michael lies back down.) How are you feeling?  
  
MICHAEL: Hungry.  
  
TEYLA: I will see about getting you some food. (She walks away.)  
  
  
Somewhere nearby, Carson takes a test tube out of a centrifuge. He takes the
top off and siphons up some yellow liquid which he squirts into another test
tube which already contains some clear liquid.  
  
  
MICHAEL'S HUT. Teyla wheels over a trolley which has a bowl of vegetable soup
on it, together with some M.R.E. bags. Michael looks at the trolley
enquiringly.  
  
TEYLA: They call them Meals Ready to Eat. It was all I could gather on short
notice. Doctor McKay quite likes them, actually.  
  
(She smiles awkwardly. Michael tugs at his wrist tethers pointedly, making her
realise that he can't feed himself.)  
  
TEYLA: Let me help you.  
  
(She lifts up the bowl of soup and feeds him a spoonful. As he swallows, she
offers him another spoonful but he shakes his head.)  
  
MICHAEL: It's OK.  
  
(Teyla puts the bowl down.)  
  
MICHAEL: You're different from the others. I noticed it the first time I saw
you. (He stares at her intently. Teyla stares back.) You're the only person
willing to understand. (Teyla blinks, unable to look away.) The only one with
a truly open mind {mind} {mind}.  
  
(His voice echoes in her head. Still gazing at him, Teyla reaches down and
undoes the tether around his left wrist. As he reaches across to untie his
right hand, Teyla, her eyes still locked on his, moves to the foot of the
bed.)  
  
MICHAEL: The only one willing to show compassion {compassion} {compassion}
{compassion}.  
  
(Teyla unties his feet. He gets up off the bed as she walks around to his
bedside. He puts his hands on her shoulders.)  
  
MICHAEL: Thank you, Teyla.  
  
(He spins her around and seizes her around the throat, holding his other hand
behind her head so that if she moves, he can snap her neck. She gasps, the
mental connection broken.)  
  
MICHAEL: I knew I could count on you.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. John and Ronon are racing around the site looking for
Teyla and Michael. Carson runs over.  
  
BECKETT: Colonel!  
  
SHEPPARD: What happened?  
  
BECKETT: Don't quite know. He somehow managed to get free of his restraints
and take Teyla hostage. He forced a security detail outside the Infirmary to
drop their weapons or he'd kill her.  
  
SHEPPARD: Where'd they go?  
  
BECKETT: Up the ridge. Bravo team's on their way.  
  
(John and Ronon race off towards the ridge. The members of Bravo team are
already halfway up it.)  
  
  
Somewhere nearby, Michael has Teyla on her knees as he fastens plastic tethers
around her wrists behind her back. He pulls her to her feet as he finishes
fastening them.  
  
MICHAEL (quoting what Teyla said earlier): Just a precaution. (Teyla
struggles.) I know -- you're angry. I lied to you. But you had no right to do
this to me. I won't let you experiment on me any more.  
  
(Teyla pulls free of him and turns to face him. He points a pistol at her.)  
  
MICHAEL: Let's go.  
  
(Teyla turns and walks off.)  
  
  
Further back, Ronon is running ahead of John. He stops and looks at the
ground.  
  
DEX: He's changing directions. The tracks are difficult to follow. (He scans
the ground.) He's good.  
  
SHEPPARD: But you, uh, can follow them, right? I mean, that's your thing.
(Ronon turns and looks at him.) Among many other things.  
  
(Ronon looks at the ground again.)  
  
DEX: This way.  
  
  
ALPHA SITE STARGATE. Michael is standing at the D.H.D. as Teyla sits on the
ground behind him.  
  
TEYLA: What are you doing?  
  
MICHAEL: We need to leave this planet. (Holding a pistol on her, he starts to
dial the D.H.D.)  
  
TEYLA: And go where?  
  
MICHAEL: I don't know.  
  
(He must be dredging up the memory of an address from somewhere, because he
continues to dial. Behind him, Teyla, who is sitting on some large pieces of
slate, picks up a small slate behind her back and starts to draw on the rock
she's sitting on.)  
  
  
Behind them, Ronon and John come upon a couple of unconscious (or dead?)
guards.  
  
SHEPPARD: These are the S.Os guarding the Gate.  
  
(He and Ronon race for the Gate.)  
  
  
STARGATE. Teyla has moved away from the slate she was sitting on and is on her
knees. The Stargate kawhooshes. Michael runs over, pulls her to her feet and
drags her towards the Gate. Ronon and John race out of the trees nearby and
run towards them, Ronon firing his blaster at Michael, but he's too far away.
Michael and Teyla run into the event horizon. The Gate starts to shut down.
Ronon hurls himself towards it but the wormhole disengages. He flies straight
through the Gate and crashes to the ground on the other side.  
  
SHEPPARD: Dammit!  
  
  
ANOTHER PLANET. Teyla is preceding Michael, who is still holding his pistol on
her.  
  
TEYLA: What is this place?  
  
(Michael looks around, then jerks his head in the direction he wants her to
go.)  
  
MICHAEL: That way.  
  
(They continue walking.)  
  
  
ALPHA SITE STARGATE. John is staring down at the D.H.D.  
  
SHEPPARD: We need to figure out the last address dialled, if that's even
possible. We need to get McKay out here.  
  
(Ronon spots something.)  
  
DEX: No we don't.  
  
SHEPPARD (still looking at the D.H.D.): Trust me, he's the only one who can
figure this stuff out.  
  
DEX: Look.  
  
(He holds up the slate that Teyla was drawing on. It shows the address that
Michael was dialling.)  
  
  
THE OTHER PLANET.  
  
TEYLA: How much further must we walk?  
  
MICHAEL: We'll rest up ahead.  
  
(He leans his head against a tree, sounding either exhausted or in pain. Teyla
walks a few paces away from him, her face tense with concentration as she
gazes into the distance.)  
  
TEYLA: I am sensing something. There are Wraith nearby.  
  
(Michael straightens up as she turns to face him. His skin is pale grey and
his pupils are slits.)  
  
MICHAEL: Yes, there are.  
  
(Teyla backs away from him in horror as he raises his pistol and points it at
her again. Michael convulses in agony.)  
  
TEYLA: It is not too late. We can still go back. Doctor Beckett can give you
an injection, take away the pain.  
  
MICHAEL: No! This is how it's supposed to be. I'm returning to what I was. (He
straightens up and walks towards her.) What I am.  
  
  
LATER. Teyla's tethers have been removed. She is lying on her back on the
ground. She wakes up. Sitting up and finding her hands free, she sees a pack
lying beside her. She scrambles to her feet and grabs the pack, but quickly
finds that there's nothing inside that will be of any use to her. She drops
the pack and looks around for Michael. She can't see him, but something else
attracts her attention. She looks in horror at the sight of a Wraith hive ship
which has landed in the distance. As a Wraith cruiser flies overhead, scores
of Wraith are disembarking from the hive ship.  
  
MICHAEL: This is what I was drawn to.  
  
(His voice is deep and more Wraith-like. Teyla turns to find him standing
beside her and gazing at the ship. His transformation is continuing. His face
has the facial ridges of a Wraith and the skin is becoming shiny. His hair is
whiter and his teeth are longer.)  
  
TEYLA: They are aware of us. (Michael turns and looks at her.) They are
coming.  
  
MICHAEL: I know. And I will return to them.  
  
TEYLA: Then we shall be enemies again.  
  
MICHAEL: We never stopped being enemies.  
  
TEYLA: What will you do with me? Feed on me? Is that why you brought me all
this way?  
  
MICHAEL: I'd be lying if I said I didn't feel the urge. (He raises his right
hand and looks at the palm.) And now that I'm truly able to feed again ... (he
turns his palm towards Teyla. There is a slit in the centre of it) ... I feel
it even more.  
  
(Teyla deliberately turns to face him.)  
  
TEYLA: Then go ahead.  
  
(Michael stares at her, torn between his last remaining human feelings and his
Wraith instinct. He slowly stretches out his hand towards her. Teyla stands
resolute but afraid as Michael, groaning, struggles to stop himself from
continuing to reach towards her. When his hand is mere inches from her chest,
he stops and pulls his hand back. Teyla gazes at him hopefully. Then Michael
roars, raises his hand high and plunges it towards her. It never reaches her.
A hail of bullets is fired into his back. The cavalry has arrived. Michael
crashes to the ground as John races out of the trees, followed by Ronon, who
stops and turns as Wraith guards run out of the trees behind him. He fires at
them.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Fall back!  
  
(Teyla hurries towards him as he fires his P90 at more guards. Above them on a
ridge, even more guards appear. John fires at them as he and Teyla race back
into the woods. Ronon follows, turning to fire his blaster at the approaching
guards.)  
  
(Nearby, a male Wraith and some guards reach Michael. The Wraith snarls in the
direction of the fleeing humans before bending down to Michael and rolling him
over.)  
  
WRAITH: He's alive.  
  
(Two of the guards pick Michael up and carry him away.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS. CONFERENCE ROOM.  
  
WEIR: He had completely transformed back into a Wraith?  
  
SHEPPARD: Not completely, but well on his way.  
  
BECKETT: His reversion occurred at a much more accelerated rate than we
anticipated.  
  
TEYLA: Unfortunately, his memory of what we did to him remained intact.  
  
DEX: I shoulda killed him when I had the chance.  
  
McKAY: He's right. We are totally screwed. Not only has our dear lieutenant
rejoined the Wraith, but he's taken with him the knowledge that Atlantis still
exists.  
  
SHEPPARD: God knows what type of intel he was able to pick up during his stay.  
  
TEYLA: They will send another wave of hive ships.  
  
DEX: Probably already on their way.  
  
McKAY: And this time, I'm guessing they're not gonna fall for the whole
invisibility trick.  
  
WEIR: We need to come up with a new defence plan.  
  
SHEPPARD: We're gonna need more fire power.

