ATLANTIS. As we see an establishing shot of the exterior of the city, Ronon
Dex’s voice can be heard. He sounds very stern and very purposeful.  
  
DEX (voiceover): Eyes straight ahead. Focus on me.  
  
(The view shifts to the interior of the gym. Ronon is staring straight into
the camera -- or, rather, into the eyes of the person standing opposite him.
He glares at the other person sternly.)  
  
DEX: Never _ever_ look away from your enemy. It shows weakness. Are you weak?  
  
(We see who is standing opposite him. It’s Doctor Rodney McKay, wearing a
white karate-type suit with a yellow belt around his waist. The belt holds a
large black pad in place which is protecting Rodney’s stomach and chest. Both
the men are holding a single bantos stick in front of them with both hands,
ready for combat. Rodney looks very plaintive and is almost trembling as he
faces Ronon, although he is trying desperately to hide his fear.)  
  
McKAY: Uh, no.  
  
DEX: Good. Then you’re ready?  
  
McKAY: Um ...  
  
(He shifts his feet slightly to get into a better stance. Immediately Ronon
screams ferociously and rapidly raises his stick over his head. Instinctively
Rodney does the same, looking up at Ronon’s stick. Ronon immediately brings
his stick around to the side and, before Rodney can defend himself, hammers
him hard across the stomach. Rodney doubles up.)  
  
DEX: McKay, what did I say? Don’t take your eyes off me.  
  
(Rodney whimpers breathlessly.)  
  
DEX: You’ve gotta anticipate the next move.  
  
(Rodney continues to whimper.)  
  
DEX: You alright?  
  
(Rodney nods and coughs while giving him a weak thumbs-up.)  
  
DEX: Alright, well, I’ll try to ease up so I don’t hurt you. (He pats Rodney’s
shoulder.)  
  
McKAY (weakly): Thanks.  
  
DEX: You’re gettin’ better.  
  
McKAY: Really?  
  
DEX: No.  
  
McKAY: Oh.  
  
(The doors to the gym open and Doctor Elizabeth Weir and Lieutenant Colonel
John Sheppard come in. Rodney glances round at them, then looks quickly back
at Ronon, raising his stick in front of him in preparation.)  
  
SHEPPARD: How are the ninja lessons going, Jet Li?  
  
McKAY (still watching Ronon): What do you want?  
  
WEIR: We lost contact with the Taranans.  
  
DEX (locking eyes with Rodney as the two of them square up to each other): You
mean the volcano people?  
  
SHEPPARD: _Super_volcano people.  
  
McKAY: What happened to them?  
  
WEIR (sarcastically): Well, we don’t know.  
  
SHEPPARD (equally sarcastically): Seeing how we lost contact with them.  
  
WEIR: They usually check in from time to time from their new settlement.  
  
(Ronon lifts a hand and points at his own eyes to signal to Rodney to continue
focusing on him, not the other two.)  
  
WEIR: We’ve been sending them food, medical supplies.  
  
SHEPPARD: It’s the least we could do since getting the Orion blown up.  
  
WEIR: But we haven’t heard from them for a few months. I tried to contact them
by radio but no response.  
  
McKAY (still concentrating on Ronon): So send a M.A.L.P.  
  
SHEPPARD: We just did. Everything looks OK but the settlement’s a couple of
kilometres from the Gate, so we don’t know anything yet.  
  
WEIR: I want you to check it out.  
  
McKAY (irritated): What?  
  
(He lowers his stick and turns towards her. Ronon promptly brings his stick
around and thumps him hard across the stomach again. As Rodney doubles up,
John winces sympathetically.)  
  
McKAY: Ooh!  
  
(Breathless, he points at his own eyes and then points at Ronon.)  
  
McKAY (in a high-pitched squeak): Eyes.  
  
DEX: Eyes. Yes.  
  
SHEPPARD: You may wanna change first.  
  
(Rodney straightens up painfully, nodding. He puts his hand on his stomach,
turning slightly, then cowers as Ronon steps towards him, but Ronon just pats
him on the shoulder and leaves the gym.)  
  
  
WORMHOLE TRAVEL.  
  
  
TARANAN SETTLEMENT. Team Sheppard, now joined by Teyla Emmagan, have arrived
through the Stargate and are looking across a wide valley to a collection of
buildings some distance away.  
  
McKAY: They’ve got a lot done in the short time they’ve been here.  
  
TEYLA: They are hard-working people. I’ve made several trips to assist them in
getting settled.  
  
(John activates his headset radio.)  
  
SHEPPARD: This is Lieutenant Colonel John Sheppard from Atlantis calling
anyone in the Taranan settlement. Please respond.  
  
(He waits a few seconds but there’s no reply, and no sign of movement from the
settlement.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I thought I’d give it a shot. Alright, let’s go.  
  
(He puts his sunglasses on and the team heads off towards the settlement. Some
time later they reach the village and go inside one of the buildings, aiming
their weapons cautiously.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Anybody home?  
  
McKAY: Well, it looks like they abandoned the place.  
  
DEX: Well, maybe they found somewhere better to live.  
  
TEYLA: But they left everything behind. Why would they do that?  
  
(John switches on a computer on one of the tables.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Let’s get these work stations powered up. Maybe we can figure out
where these people went.  
  
(Rodney activates his life signs detector which begins to beep.)  
  
McKAY: Oh. I got something. A single life sign.  
  
TEYLA: Where is it?  
  
McKAY: It’s, uh, below us. (He adjusts the setting on the detector to show a
vertical rather than horizontal perspective.) Quite a _way_ below us.  
  
SHEPPARD: They built underground?  
  
TEYLA: No. One of the previous civilisations that lived here was similar to
the Genii, living below the surface to avoid detection by the Wraith. They
left behind several underground passages but the Taranans didn’t utilise them.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, _someone_ is.  
  
SHEPPARD (to Teyla): How do we get there?  
  
(Teyla points and then leads the team away.)  
  
  
LATER. Ronon slides down a rope into the tunnels, the last of the team to do
so. Rodney is already checking his life signs detector.  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney?  
  
(Rodney points straight ahead. John leads the team in that direction. They
progress down the tunnels -- some of which are obscured by steam coming from
pipes above their heads -- checking all around them as they go. Ronon kicks
down a metal grating to get a better view of a small room on the other side.
There is something that could be dried blood on the walls. He checks the area
out carefully but there’s nothing else there and so he follows the others.
They move on. Teyla pulls open a metal door and looks inside a dark room.)  
  
TEYLA: Wait!  
  
(Ronon pulls the door open wider to get a better look.)  
  
DEX: Woah!  
  
(John goes inside to look at what’s hanging from the ceiling. It’s almost like
skin in appearance, though it’s a dark red colour, with veins running through
it.)  
  
DEX: What is that?  
  
TEYLA: Looks like a cocoon of some sort.  
  
DEX: What’s inside it?  
  
(John cautiously walks closer, shining the light from his rifle at the cocoon.
It has been ripped open and there’s nothing inside.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, whatever it is, it’s not inside any more.  
  
(Outside the door, Teyla and Ronon look down the tunnel anxiously. Rodney
checks the life signs detector again. It still shows one life sign not far
away. He and John look at each other nervously.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS CONTROL ROOM. Elizabeth walks over to the Canadian technician.  
  
WEIR: Has Colonel Sheppard’s team dialled in with a status report yet?  
  
TECHNICIAN: Not yet, but they haven’t been gone that long.  
  
WEIR: Go ahead and dial them.  
  
(The technician nods and begins to dial.)  
  
  
TARANAN TUNNELS. Elizabeth’s voice comes over the radio as the team progresses
along the tunnels.  
  
WEIR: How’s it going there?  
  
SHEPPARD: I think I know why we lost contact with the Taranans.  
  
WEIR: Why?  
  
SHEPPARD: They’re gone.  
  
WEIR: What?! All of them?  
  
(The team reaches a junction. Rodney indicates to John to turn left.)  
  
SHEPPARD (into radio): Looks like it. The entire settlement is deserted.
Rodney’s picked up a life sign underneath the tunnel. We’re tracking it, but
we don’t think it’s human, though.  
  
WEIR: Why not?  
  
TEYLA: We discovered a large cocoon in one of the rooms under the settlement
and we think whatever hatched from it is what we’re detecting.  
  
WEIR: Did you just say “cocoon”?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, it’s like a big slimy ...  
  
McKAY: It’s a pod.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, I was gonna say “egg”, but who knows _what_ the hell it is?  
  
WEIR: I’m sending in back-up.  
  
DEX: We can handle it.  
  
WEIR: I know you can handle it, but I’d rather be safe than sorry. I’ll send
in a team of marines to assist you.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright. If you feel the need.  
  
WEIR: I feel the need. Weir out.  
  
(The team continues on, turning yet another corner.)  
  
SHEPPARD: It’s a hell of a complex down here.  
  
DEX: It’s like a maze.  
  
McKAY (looking at his detector): We’re closer.  
  
SHEPPARD: How far?  
  
McKAY: Forty metres. It’s stopped moving, so we’re gaining ground on it.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, good. (He swings around briefly to look at the others.)
Look, if it makes any sudden moves ... (he swings back around and continues
walking forward) ... I want you to make sure that ... (He stops, frowning.)
Where’s Ronon?  
  
(The three of them turn back around to see that Ronon is no longer with them.
Teyla aims her rifle back down the tunnel.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Ronon!  
  
(Ronon has gone into a room off the tunnel. He coughs and covers his mouth and
nose with his hand.)  
  
DEX: In here.  
  
(The others hurry back along the tunnel and go into the room that Ronon has
found. They stare in shock at the sight that greets them. There are many dead
people lying on the floor. They are piled up on top of each other as if
they’ve been dumped there. Some of them have looks of horror on their faces as
if they died in terror or agony.)  
  
McKAY: Oh my God!  
  
(Teyla gasps in horror.)  
  
TEYLA: Taranans!  
  
(Rodney and John squat down to look at the bodies more closely. Each of them
has a bloody injury in the same place.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Wounds on their neck -- all of them. Does this look familiar?  
  
McKAY: It looks _disturbingly_ familiar.  
  
SHEPPARD: You don’t think, uh ...  
  
(He and Rodney stare at each other in shock for a moment, then John looks up
as he realises that Ronon is missing again.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Ronon? Oh, for God’s sakes!  
  
TEYLA (calling out): Ronon!  
  
DEX (from another room): In here.  
  
(The team hurries into the next room to join him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You can’t wander off like that. You gotta ...  
  
(He trails off as he sees what Ronon has found this time. The room looks like
a laboratory. In the middle of the room is a table with a large container on
it. Suspended in a green liquid inside is a very familiar sight. John stares
at it in dread.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, no.  
  
McKAY: Iratus bug!  
  
SHEPPARD: I _hate_ those things.  
  
McKAY: That explains why the wounds looked so familiar.  
  
TEYLA: What is it doing here? Iratus bugs are not indigenous to this planet.  
  
DEX: Well, _somebody_ brought it here.  
  
McKAY: Let’s hope it’s the _only_ bug they brought.  
  
SHEPPARD: So, some kind of a Wraith experiment?  
  
McKAY: Well, I doubt the Taranans did this to themselves.  
  
TEYLA: I do not sense any Wraith in this settlement.  
  
(Rodney checks his life signs detector. It shows the single life sign moving
quickly towards the four dots that indicate him and his team.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, our little friend is on the move. It’s headed right for us.  
  
SHEPPARD: How fast?  
  
McKAY: _Very_ fast.  
  
DEX: It knows we’re here. (He starts to head out of the room.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Ronon, stun.  
  
DEX (turning back angrily): Why?  
  
SHEPPARD (firmly): Stun.  
  
(Annoyed, Ronon tosses his blaster up into the air, catches it and adjusts the
setting. The team goes to the doorway and peers cautiously through to the room
with all the dead bodies in it. Rodney’s detector begins to beep faster.
Suddenly John jumps as a man’s voice comes through his earpiece.)  
  
NEGLEY (over radio): Colonel Sheppard, come in.  
  
(At the Gate, Lieutenant Negley and his team of marines begin to walk towards
the settlement.)  
  
NEGLEY: Colonel Sheppard, this is Lieutenant Negley. Do you copy?  
  
SHEPPARD (tetchily): Yes, Lieutenant.  
  
NEGLEY: Sir, my team has just come through the Gate and we’re proceeding to
the settlement in order ...  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly): Great. Terrific. We’ll meet you there. Right now I need
radio silence. Sheppard out.  
  
(Rodney looks at his detector and frowns.)  
  
McKAY: It’s stopped.  
  
SHEPPARD: Why?  
  
McKAY: How am _I_ supposed to know?!  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, where is it?  
  
McKAY: I think it’s out in the tunnel.  
  
(John and Ronon look at each other for a moment, then John leads the team
through the room of bodies to the doorway before proceeding warily out into
the tunnel.)  
  
McKAY (whispering): It’s close.  
  
(John and Ronon cautiously start to walk down the tunnel. Rodney looks
nervously at Teyla, who jerks her head at him to follow them. Reluctantly, he
does so and she follows him. The team continues onwards.)  
  
(Suddenly something roars and surges out of a side door, seizing Ronon and
slamming him against the wall. John spins around and sees a large black
creature -- at least as tall as Ronon and standing on two legs -- grappling
with Ronon. The tunnel is too dark to see the creature properly but it has
large pincers coming from its face. Anyone who has seen the film “Predator”
will get a touch of deja vu. The other three open fire and the monster screams
and recoils away from Ronon, turning towards John and swiping him to the
ground. As it turns to run, Ronon draws his sword from its scabbard on his
back and slashes at the beast. Screaming, it runs off down the corridor. John
grabs his rifle off the floor and fires after it as Rodney and Teyla also fire
at it. Ronon grabs his blaster and sends a blast down the corridor. The
monster continues running and disappears from view in the smoke coming from
the ceiling. John climbs to his feet as Teyla looks at Ronon in concern.)  
  
TEYLA: Are you alright?  
  
DEX: Yeah, I’m good.  
  
McKAY: What the hell _was_ that thing?  
  
TEYLA (looking down at the floor): What is that?  
  
(Ronon bends down and picks up what she is looking at. It’s the beast’s arm
which he severed with his sword.)  
  
DEX: Ugh. It’s a piece of an arm it looks like.  
  
(He holds it up. The arm has two long narrow claws and a shorter third claw.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Let’s hope that slows him down.  
  
McKAY (plaintively): Well, maybe it’ll bleed to death.  
  
DEX: Or just grow another arm. (He drops the arm to the floor. It lands with
an unpleasant splat.)  
  
  
PLANET’S SURFACE. As the team of marines heads for the settlement, the Gate
begins to dial behind them. Negley turns, frowning, then yells out as the Gate
activates and a familiar sound can be heard.  
  
NEGLEY: Dart!  
  
(The team opens fire on the Wraith Dart as it flies out of the Gate and heads
towards them. It activates its transporter beam and sweeps them all up as it
flies overhead.)  
  
  
TUNNELS. Team Sheppard proceeds down a tunnel as Rodney checks his life signs
detector.  
  
McKAY: It’s still moving away from us.  
  
SHEPPARD: Let’s hope losing a chunk of his arm slows him down.  
  
DEX: We need to finish it off to make sure.  
  
SHEPPARD: I couldn’t agree with you more.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, and how’re we gonna do that, huh? Am I the only one who noticed
that our bullets had no effect on it?  
  
TEYLA: It appears to have a hardened shell on its back.  
  
SHEPPARD (to Ronon): Right, set that thing to kill again. (He activates his
headset.) Lieutenant Negley, this is Sheppard. How far away from the
settlement are you?  
  
(There’s no reply.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Negley, this is Sheppard, come in?  
  
McKAY: You did say radio silence.  
  
SHEPPARD: Negley? Respond! (Still no reply.) Great(!)  
  
(Looking at his detector, Rodney pats John’s arm to get his attention and then
points to the right.)  
  
McKAY: It’s through that doorway.  
  
(As Ronon adjusts his blaster to its kill setting, John walks to the door that
Rodney indicated. He takes up position, aiming his rifle, as Rodney takes hold
of the door handle. Teyla and Ronon stay further back and aim their weapons.
Ronon nods to Rodney that they’re ready. Rodney glances at John, then quickly
pulls the door open. They make their way carefully inside, then stop and stare
in horror at the sight of many cocoons hanging from the ceiling. These
_aren’t_ empty.)  
  
SHEPPARD: This is _not_ good.  
  
  
ATLANTIS. The technician walks into Elizabeth’s office.  
  
TECHNICIAN: Doctor Weir? We just received a data transmission from the Taranan
settlement. Lieutenant Negley checking in.  
  
WEIR: And how are they doing?  
  
TECHNICIAN: Well, they’ve contacted Colonel Sheppard’s team. They’re about ten
kilometres further inland from the settlement. Negley and his team are on
their way to meet up with them.  
  
WEIR: Ten kilometres inland? What are they doing there?  
  
TECHNICIAN: Well, they found the Taranans.  
  
(Elizabeth sighs with relief.)  
  
TECHNICIAN: Apparently they’ve abandoned their settlement for a better
location inland.  
  
WEIR: What about the cocoon and the life sign they were tracking?  
  
TECHNICIAN: There was no mention about it. It was a brief transmission -- they
were almost out of range.  
  
WEIR: OK. Good. Keep me posted.  
  
  
TARANAN TUNNELS. John and Ronon come out of the cocoon room and join Teyla and
Rodney who have been keeping an eye on the tunnel.  
  
SHEPPARD: We’ve searched the whole room. That thing ain’t in there. Just a
bunch of unhatched eggs.  
  
McKAY: Pods.  
  
SHEPPARD: Whatever.  
  
TEYLA: Is there another way out?  
  
DEX: No. It’s the only door to the room.  
  
McKAY (lifting his detector): Well, then, he must have found another way out,
because it is still on the move.  
  
(John is staring up at the ceiling.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Alien.  
  
(Rodney glances up at the ceiling nervously.)  
  
SHEPPARD: The movie, “Alien.” They used the air shafts when they over-ran the
ship.  
  
McKAY: And then they systematically killed the entire crew one by one. Thank
you for bringing that up.  
  
SHEPPARD: They didn’t kill ‘em _all_.  
  
TEYLA: What do we do now?  
  
DEX: Track this thing down and kill it.  
  
SHEPPARD: Agreed. _But_ first things first.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. John attaches a block of C4 to one of the cocoons and
primes it. Teyla is looking at another cocoon.  
  
TEYLA: The structure is very peculiar.  
  
McKAY (also looking at a cocoon): Yeah? I believe the word is “disgusting.”  
  
(John has attached another block of C4 somewhere in the room and it beeps as
he primes it. Outside in the tunnel, Ronon draws his sword from its scabbard
again and looks each way down the tunnel. Inside the room, Teyla has walked
over to another cocoon and is looking at it. Suddenly a black insect-like arm
bursts out of the cocoon and grabs for her and Rodney.)  
  
McKAY: Go, go, go, go, go! Sheppard! They’re hatching!  
  
SHEPPARD (attaching another block of C4 nearby): We’re good. Let’s go!  
  
(In the tunnel, Ronon turns at the sound of roaring from the room behind him.
He grabs the handle of the door as the other three race out.)  
  
McKAY: Shut the door!  
  
(Ronon starts to shove the door closed but two clawed hands push through the
gap and try to force it open. John moves to the gap and fires his rifle point
blank at the beast. It screams and backs off and the men shove the door
closed, then the team races off around the corner. John takes out his
detonator.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Fire in the hole.  
  
(A massive explosion goes off, blowing the door off its hinges.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Everyone OK?  
  
TEYLA: Yes.  
  
DEX: I’m good.  
  
McKAY: I think you singed my eyebrows! D’you think you used enough dynamite
there, Butch?  
  
(Carefully, the team heads back to the open doorway. John walks inside,
looking around at the burned cocoons.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney?  
  
(Rodney checks his detector.)  
  
McKAY: I think we got ‘em all.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, that’s good.  
  
McKAY: Except for our armless friend -- he’s still on the move.  
  
SHEPPARD: Let’s go get him.  
  
  
LATER. The team is continuing its search. John activates his radio.  
  
SHEPPARD: Lieutenant Negley, this is Sheppard, do you read? ... Negley,
respond. ... Dammit!  
  
TEYLA: Perhaps they encountered the creature.  
  
DEX: And what? Killed all four of them?  
  
SHEPPARD: No way. No creature is gonna take out four marines.  
  
McKAY: It almost killed all of us.  
  
DEX: But it didn’t.  
  
SHEPPARD: We need to find ‘em.  
  
TEYLA: If they were alive, we would see them on the life signs detector.  
  
McKAY: Not if they didn’t make it to the settlement. This thing only has a
range of a hundred metres.  
  
SHEPPARD: Where’s the creature now?  
  
(Rodney looks at the detector, then looks bewildered.)  
  
McKAY: Wait a minute. (He turns to face the way they have just come.) It’s
back _that_ way.  
  
SHEPPARD: Behind us?  
  
DEX: You just said it was _that_ way. (He nods in the direction they were
going.)  
  
McKAY: I did! Well, it _was_, but it must have ... it must have doubled back.  
  
(John gazes up at the ceiling.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Damned air shafts.  
  
TEYLA: Well, obviously it knows its way around this place better than we do.
Perhaps we should consider returning to the Gate.  
  
DEX: What, you mean give up?  
  
TEYLA: No, not give up. We can find out what happened to the marines and
request additional back-up so that we may do a proper search of the
settlement.  
  
McKAY: I like this plan -- I mean, if we’re taking a vote.  
  
(Ronon turns and looks at John pointedly.)  
  
DEX: Sounds like giving up to me.  
  
SHEPPARD: Teyla’s right. Enough of this cat and mouse. We’re better off doing
a full-scale sweep of this area.  
  
McKAY: Including the air shafts.  
  
SHEPPARD (to Teyla): Alright. How do we get out of here?  
  
TEYLA: This way.  
  
(She leads them away.)  
  
  
LATER. The team has returned to the surface and is walking back towards the
Stargate.  
  
TEYLA: On all the worlds I’ve been to, I have never encountered anything like
it.  
  
SHEPPARD: Did anybody get a good look at that thing?  
  
McKAY: Aside from its severed appendage, no. That thing moved incredibly fast.  
  
DEX: In some ways, it looked almost like a human.  
  
McKAY: If, by “human,” you mean clad in a grotesquely proportioned
exoskeleton, yes -- _very_ human.  
  
DEX: I meant it looked like it had two arms and two legs.  
  
SHEPPARD: It looked like a giant bug to me. I _hate_ those things.  
  
TEYLA: If it was indeed a Wraith experiment, perhaps it was created by
combining the genetic elements of the iratus bug with the Taranans.  
  
McKAY: Which is, as we know, exactly how the Wraith evolved. I mean, iratus
bug bites human, human D.N.A. mixes with theirs, a thousand years go by,
Wraith.  
  
DEX: So, what? They’re tryin’ to create more Wraith?  
  
SHEPPARD: That doesn’t make any more sense. If they wanted to create more
Wraith, wouldn’t it be easier to get a male and female to, you know, get a
room?  
  
McKAY: It doesn’t work that way with the Wraith, alright? At least, we don’t
think it does. We’re not entirely sure as to the Wraiths’ reproductive
methods.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don’t wanna be around to watch _that_ film.  
  
McKAY: Anyway, look, it’s probably less likely that they were trying to create
another Wraith than they were actually trying to create some kind of a hybrid
creature -- probably to be used as a weapon.  
  
SHEPPARD: Super-Wraith? That’s _all_ we need!  
  
(They reach the M.A.L.P. which is near the D.H.D.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, that’s the whole distance from the settlement. I don’t see any
sign of the marines yet.  
  
McKAY: Maybe they went back to Atlantis.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, they would have radioed us.  
  
TEYLA: They must have encountered the creature. There’s no other explanation
for why they are not responding to us.  
  
McKAY: If that thing took _them_ all out, then-then that is one nasty bug ...
person.  
  
SHEPPARD: Dial us out.  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(He presses the first button on the D.H.D. but instead of its usual “clunk” it
just makes a dull “thunk” sound and the symbol doesn’t light up. Rodney lifts
his hand and presses the button again. It makes the same sound.)  
  
McKAY: No.  
  
DEX: What?  
  
McKAY: No-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no.  
  
(He kneels down, takes off the cover of the control panel underneath the
D.H.D. and looks inside.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney?  
  
(Rodney looks up at the others, his eyes wide.)  
  
McKAY: Control crystal’s missing.  
  
TEYLA: Missing?  
  
DEX: We can’t dial out?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, fix it.  
  
(Rodney straightens up.)  
  
McKAY: It is not a matter of fixing, OK? The crystal is just gone. Someone has
removed it to prevent anyone else from dialling out.  
  
  
TUNNELS. A figure wearing a black floor-length coat walks along a tunnel. It
pauses for a moment as it sees the twisted and mangled door that blew off the
cocoon room. It hesitates, then walks into the room. The camera pans up to
show the face of this person. It’s Michael. He stares around at the
destruction, breathing rapidly and furiously.  
  
  
STARGATE.  
  
DEX: Stay here?  
  
McKAY: Hey, Elizabeth will wonder why we haven’t checked in -- she’ll dial up
to get our status; we can request back-up, also a Puddle Jumper to come and
get us.  
  
SHEPPARD: We don’t know how long that’ll be. That could be hours.  
  
TEYLA: We will be safe here. The life signs detector will alert us if the
creature is nearby.  
  
McKAY: She’s right: we can set up a, a, a -- what do you call it -- a
perimeter, wait it out.  
  
SHEPPARD: We’re not leaving without those marines. Let’s go back to the
settlement.  
  
(He starts to head back in the direction they just came from. Unhappily,
Rodney starts to follow as Ronon grins at him smugly.)  
  
  
TUNNELS. The team is back in the tunnels and walking along when Teyla slows
down and then stops, her gaze distant. Ronon touches her arm in concern as
John turns to her.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
TEYLA: I am sensing something.  
  
DEX: Wraith?  
  
TEYLA: I cannot be certain.  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney?  
  
(Rodney looks at his life signs detector. It shows a dot not far from their
four dots.)  
  
McKAY: No. No, I’ve still just got the one reading. Still on the move, heading
... (He stares at the detector in surprise.) No. No, I’m picking up another
life sign.  
  
(He holds the detector towards John. It now shows another dot further away.)  
  
McKAY: It’s popped up out of nowhere.  
  
DEX: How is that possible?  
  
SHEPPARD: Maybe one of those eggs hatched.  
  
McKAY: Maybe. That, or part of the settlement is shielded.  
  
DEX: Maybe it’s one of the marines.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, if it _is_ one of those marines, that something Teyla’s
sensing is heading right toward him.  
  
(The team gets moving again. They head down some stairs as the beeping on the
detector quickens.)  
  
McKAY: They’re close.  
  
(The team continues on, John and Ronon in the lead. Rodney notices a large
opening high up on the wall and aims his rifle towards it as he passes. Teyla
follows suit as she passes the opening. They move on. Teyla notices a door
partially open and goes inside, shining her rifle’s light around. As she gets
inside the room, the door slams shut loudly behind her.)  
  
(In the tunnel, the men stop at the sound.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What was that?  
  
(Rodney and Ronon turn around.)  
  
McKAY: Teyla.  
  
DEX: Teyla!  
  
(They run back to the door. As John starts to tug on the door’s handle, steam
begins to blast down on them from a vent above the door. They duck out of the
way as the steam fills the tunnel. Suddenly the Super-Wraith appears in their
midst, roaring.)  
  
(Inside the room, Teyla slams her hand repeatedly against the door.)  
  
TEYLA: Ronon!  
  
(Outside, Ronon tries to aim his blaster at the creature but can’t get a clear
shot through all the steam and daren’t fire randomly for fear of hitting the
others. Inside the room, Teyla continues beating on the door, frantic with
worry as the sound of the beast roaring continues.)  
  
TEYLA: John!  
  
(She stops beating the door as she senses something behind her. She turns
around and finds herself face to face with Michael.)  
  
(Out in the tunnel, the men are trying to avoid the Super-Wraith. Rodney opens
fire with his rifle as it approaches him. It screams. Ronon finally gets a
clear shot and fires his blaster at it repeatedly point-blank. After several
blasts, it drops to the floor. At the same time the steam stops venting and
the tunnel begins to clear. Gasping with fear and exertion, Rodney straightens
up as Ronon aims his blaster down at the beast. Once they’re sure it’s
definitely staying down, John takes out his knife and sticks it in between the
door and the wall. As Ronon aims his blaster in readiness, John prises the
door open. The men go inside but although there’s no other exit, there is no
sign of Teyla.)  
  
McKAY: Where’d she go?  
  
(He lowers his rifle and looks at the life signs detector.)  
  
McKAY: I’m reading two life signs moving away from us, but one floor up, I
think. That, or more air shafts.  
  
SHEPPARD: Let’s go.  
  
(He and Ronon head off. Rodney runs after them, still looking at his
detector.)  
  
McKAY: Wait! They disappeared.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
McKAY: The life signs -- they just vanished. I was right. Part of this
settlement must be shielded.  
  
(John and Ronon start to run down the corridor.)  
  
McKAY (hurrying after them): Wait! No! We won’t be able to track ‘em.  
  
  
LAB. Teyla regains consciousness as a light is switched on in the room. She is
lying on a table or narrow metal bed. She tries to sit up but finds that her
hands and ankles are bound to the sides of the table. Teyla looks around the
room, bewildered.  
  
TEYLA: What?  
  
(Michael walks over to her.)  
  
MICHAEL: This will proceed much more quickly if you don’t resist.  
  
TEYLA: Michael.  
  
MICHAEL: Hello, Teyla.  
  
  
TUNNELS. The boys are still hurrying along.  
  
McKAY (to Ronon): You need to aim for the stomach area. It seems to be more
vulnerable -- it’s the soft under-belly. You were able to kill it when you hit
it there before.  
  
DEX (a little sarcastically, as he has probably already figured it out for
himself): Thanks.  
  
(They catch up with John who has reached a junction.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Which way?  
  
McKAY: I don’t know. (He glances at his detector.) It’s not showing me
anything. It’s useless.  
  
(John grunts angrily.)  
  
DEX (picking a direction at random): This way.  
  
(The other two follow him.)  
  
  
LAB.  
  
TEYLA: You are the one who’s done all this?  
  
MICHAEL: “All this”?  
  
TEYLA: This ... experiment. You murdered those people. You allowed those bugs
to feed on them.  
  
MICHAEL: A necessary step in the process.  
  
TEYLA: To create these creatures? Why are you doing this?  
  
MICHAEL: Do you not recall our last encounter? How you left me to die on that
desolate planet? The hive that finally rescued me -- they could tell something
was different. They sensed the human in me. To them, I was unclean. I barely
escaped that hive with my life.  
  
(He walks over to a table on which are all sorts of nasty-looking surgical
implements.)  
  
MICHAEL: So now I find myself hunted by both humans _and_ Wraith. (Having
picked up one of the implements, he turns back towards Teyla.) So you can
understand my need to protect myself -- to survive.  
  
(He turns back to the table and starts sorting through the implements.)  
  
TEYLA: It did not have to be like this. You could have lived with us.  
  
MICHAEL: As a human? My consciousness erased by your retrovirus? (He turns
back to her.) No. I will live the rest of my life as _I_ choose. But I can’t
do it alone. So, having taken my cue from the experiment your people performed
on me, I figured out how to reverse the process -- to create a being even more
formidable than a Wraith. It began with the feeding.  
  
  
FLASHBACK. In the lab, a Taranan male is strapped to the bed. He screams as an
iratus bug latches onto his throat and feeds. Michael stands nearby, watching
impassively.  
  
MICHAEL (voiceover): I allowed the bug to gorge itself, to absorb as much
human D.N.A. as possible. This, of course, led to the death of the subject.  
  
(Michael carries the man’s body into the room next to the lab and dumps it
onto several other bodies already there, then returns to the lab.)  
  
MICHAEL (voiceover): The timing of the feeding was critical -- ensuring that
the bug laid its next egg quickly, before the genetic material could filter
out of its body.  
  
(Several large white soft eggs are on the table. Michael puts a syringe into a
vial and siphons up some liquid. Tapping the syringe and then squirting some
liquid out to remove any air, he injects the rest of the liquid into one of
the eggs.)  
  
MICHAEL (voiceover): The embryo then contained enough human D.N.A. for me to
manipulate.  
  
(Some time later, he goes into the cocoon room and inspects the cocoons.)  
  
MICHAEL (voiceover): I accelerated the development, augmenting the complexity
of its physiology. There were several adjustments, several mistakes ...  
  
(He looks in satisfaction as he sees that one of the cocoons is beginning to
hatch.)  
  
MICHAEL (voiceover): ... until I finally found the perfect balance between
strength, agility and resilience.  
  
(The flashback ends.)  
  
MICHAEL: A perfect animal to do my bidding.  
  
(He gazes towards the door to the lab, from where a growling can be heard.
Teyla turns her head slowly and sees the Super-Wraith standing in the dark
doorway. It is silhouetted against a limited amount of light coming from
behind it, so it’s still hard to tell its complete shape, but it’s enough to
give you nightmares.)  
  
  
TUNNELS. The boys come to the end of a corridor. There’s a door in the end
wall. John tries the handle but can’t open it.  
  
McKAY: Must be some kind of security lockdown. Whoever took Teyla no doubt
triggered it.  
  
SHEPPARD: Figure how to open this up.  
  
DEX: Stand back.  
  
(Without waiting, he fires at it. John and Rodney recoil from the blast.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Jeez! You mind giving us a little more heads-up before you start
blasting everything?!  
  
(Ronon walks closer to the door, realising that his blaster isn’t going to
open it, then looks at John.)  
  
DEX: You got any more C4?  
  
  
LAB. Teyla struggles to get free of her bonds as the Super-Wraith continues to
growl from the doorway.  
  
MICHAEL: I saw how you and your team destroyed the incubation room, but don’t
think that’s the only one in this complex -- and don’t think that this is the
only planet from which I’m conducting this experiment.  
  
(Teyla stares at him in horror.)  
  
MICHAEL: That’s right. Soon hundreds of these creatures will be at my
disposal, and their numbers will continue to grow so long as I have human
subjects in supply. And now that you’re here, I do.  
  
  
TUNNEL. Ronon and Rodney have retreated around the corner from the door. John
trots round to join them.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, that’s the last of the C4. Let’s hope it’s enough. (He
raises the detonator.) Ready?  
  
(He presses the button. Nothing happens.)  
  
McKAY: What happened?  
  
(John frowns and looks around the corner. The C4 promptly blows. He ducks back
around the corner, cursing, as Rodney cringes from the noise. John looks back
around the corner again.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright, let’s go.  
  
(They run to the door, which has been mostly demolished by the blast, and make
their way through. Rodney takes out his life signs detector, which beeps
rapidly several times.)  
  
McKAY: Woah! _Serious_ energy spike.  
  
DEX: What does that mean?  
  
McKAY: We probably just entered the shielded section of the settlement.  
  
(They continue on, oblivious to a red light flashing on the ceiling nearby.)  
  
  
LAB. A similar red light flashes above Michael’s head. He turns to Teyla.  
  
MICHAEL: Your friends are coming for you.  
  
(He looks at the Super-Wraith and jerks his head. Growling, it turns and
leaves.)  
  
MICHAEL (walking over to Teyla): They’ll meet the same fate as you, one by
one.  
  
TEYLA: Others will come for us. Doctor Weir will send ...  
  
MICHAEL (interrupting): Don’t concern yourself with Doctor Weir. She thinks
your team has met up with the Taranan people and all is well. One of the
marines she sent to help you was ... kind enough to assist me in transmitting
a message back to Atlantis.  
  
(Teyla closes her eyes briefly and sighs.)  
  
TEYLA: Michael, please don’t do this.  
  
MICHAEL: After what you did to me -- twice -- how could you expect anything
less?  
  
TEYLA: What happened back on the planet ...  
  
MICHAEL (interrupting): No more excuses.  
  
(He fetches a large box and puts it on the foot of the bed.)  
  
MICHAEL: Your experiment failed. You decided to kill us.  
  
TEYLA: We believed we were left with no choice.  
  
MICHAEL: And now I am in the same position.  
  
(He opens the side of the box.)  
  
MICHAEL: You drove me to this.  
  
(An iratus bug crawls out of the box and starts to make its way up Teyla’s
body. Teyla stares at it in dread.)  
  
  
TUNNELS. The men walk down some stairs, Rodney staring in horror at what’s at
the bottom.  
  
McKAY: Oh my God.  
  
(One of the marines is lying on the floor, dead, with a bloody wound in his
throat. John and Rodney bend down to him.)  
  
DEX: Where are the others?  
  
(He heads off down the tunnel. Further down, two more of the marines are lying
on the floor with similar wounds on their throats.)  
  
DEX: Sheppard. Over here.  
  
(John runs over as Ronon checks one of them for a pulse. John bends down to
the other one and pulls his dog tags from around his neck. A chittering sound
can be heard in the walls. It’s very reminiscent of the sound made by the
iratus bugs in the cavern in “Conversion.”)  
  
DEX: You hear that?  
  
(Rodney aims his rifle towards the ceiling, his face full of dread.)  
  
McKAY (plaintively): Oh, it sounds like bugs!  
  
SHEPPARD (standing up): C’mon.  
  
(He continues down the corridor, Rodney following. Ronon pauses to take the
dog tags from the other marine, then reaches down and closes the man’s eyes
before following the other two. Rodney consults his life signs detector again
as it beeps.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Put that thing away. I thought you said it didn’t work in this area
anyway.  
  
McKAY: It is -- I just, I thought I could recalibrate it to take into effect
...  
  
(The Super-Wraith leaps out of the darkness and grabs him, slamming him up
against the wall. As Rodney tries to hold it off him, John spins around and
opens fire.)  
  
(In the lab, Michael lifts his head at the sound of the beast screaming some
distance away.)  
  
(As John continues to fire, Ronon arrives and fires a blast at it. It recoils
away from Rodney and Ronon homes in on it, firing again at its stomach.)  
  
(In the lab, Michael continues to listen as the creature screams again. He
puts down what he was holding and leaves the room.)  
  
(In the tunnel, John and Ronon stand over the creature.)  
  
SHEPPARD: It’s dead.  
  
(Rodney sighs in relief, trying to catch his breath.)  
  
(In the lab, Teyla stares down at the iratus bug as it slowly makes its way up
her body. As it climbs up onto her chest, she turns her head and yells towards
the door.)  
  
TEYLA: John!  
  
(The bug reaches her neck.)  
  
TEYLA: John!!  
  
(The bug recoils slightly from the sound, then hisses and crawls forward,
lifting its pincers ready to strike. Just then, a blast from Ronon’s weapon
hits it and blows it to bits. Teyla gasps with relief as John runs past Ronon
into the room.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Nice shot! (To Teyla) You OK?  
  
(He starts to undo her tethers.)  
  
TEYLA: Yes. It’s Michael. He’s the one doing this.  
  
SHEPPARD: Michael? _Our_ Michael?  
  
McKAY: He’s alive?  
  
TEYLA: Yes. He created the creatures and he is attempting to build an army of
them.  
  
DEX: Where is he?  
  
TEYLA: I don’t know. He ran off as soon as he heard the gunfire.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright. We need to come up with the best plan here.  
  
DEX: The best plan is to kill him. (He heads for the door.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hey, just hang on a second.  
  
McKAY: Maybe I should check out these work stations. Look, there might be some
intel.  
  
DEX: We don’t have any time.  
  
McKAY (loudly): Such as how many of these creatures he created and if they
have any weaknesses that we might be able to exploit.  
  
SHEPPARD: Alright. Teyla, you stay with Rodney. Ronon and I are going after
Michael. We’ll stay in touch on the radio.  
  
McKAY: You can’t. Shielded, remember? Look, the energy spike -- it fouls the
radio communications as well.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, then, _un_shield it. (To Ronon) Let’s go.  
  
(They race out of the room. Rodney, who has a large scratch on his face from
his run-in with the Super-Wraith, groans and puts his hand to it as he turns
back to the work stations.)  
  
  
TUNNELS. John and Ronon run along the tunnel and come to a T-junction.  
  
SHEPPARD: You go that way, I’ll go the other.  
  
(Ronon turns and starts to head off to the left when John turns back to him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, hey, wait. Set your gun to stun.  
  
DEX: What?!  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. We’re gonna need to question him.  
  
DEX: No. No more talking, no more questioning. I’m gonna do what we should
have done the first time we captured him.  
  
SHEPPARD: Ronon, listen to me.  
  
DEX: No, _you_ listen to _me_, John. This whole retrovirus thing was a
mistake. I said it then -- no-one listened to me. It was a bad idea.  
  
SHEPPARD: We had to try. If it worked, we wouldn’t ...  
  
DEX (interrupting): But it _didn’t_ work. Admit it. It just made things worse.
How long do you wanna keep paying for it?  
  
  
LAB. As Teyla keeps watch at the door, Rodney is looking through Michael’s
research.  
  
McKAY: It is _amazing_ how much work he’s been able to get done in such a
short amount of time. He’s quite the industrious little fella ... or Wraith
... or ... whatever. What does he looks like now? I mean, is he, is he full-on
Wraith again?  
  
TEYLA: Not quite. There are still human characteristics present in him. No
doubt it’s why I was confused when I first felt his presence.  
  
McKAY: You’d think that the human side of him would temper his aggression a
bit.  
  
TEYLA: Yes -- because we humans aren’t aggressive at all.  
  
McKAY: Well, certainly less aggressive than, uh ... (He looks up and rolls his
eyes.) Oh, sarcasm. Yeah. Nice.  
  
TEYLA: What Michael is doing right now must be stopped. He cannot be allowed
to escape. He’s far too dangerous.  
  
McKAY: You’re preaching to the choir, my dear.  
  
TEYLA: But I understand his anger. His life has been destroyed. He no longer
has a home or a family.  
  
McKAY: He had a family?!  
  
TEYLA: I don’t know, but I’ve often wondered what he left behind when he was
captured by us. We know nothing of his past other than that he was a Wraith.  
  
(Rodney has linked his computer table to another console and has called up
some more data.)  
  
McKAY: A very _smart_ Wraith.  
  
TEYLA: Perhaps he was a scientist.  
  
McKAY (a little distracted): Huh. Sure. Probably. Why not? One of their very
best, I’d wager.  
  
TEYLA: Like you.  
  
(Rodney lifts his head briefly, not sure whether to take that as a compliment
or not.)  
  
McKAY: Right. (He spots something on the screen.) Wait a minute.  
  
TEYLA: What is it?  
  
McKAY: I think I’ve just figured out how to disable the E.M. interference that
is causing the shielding. (He types on the screen, then activates his headset
radio.) Sheppard, you there?  
  
SHEPPARD (out in the tunnels): Hey, I’m here.  
  
McKAY: I got the shielding disabled.  
  
SHEPPARD: So I see.  
  
McKAY: Any luck finding Michael?  
  
SHEPPARD: No sign of him yet. Is that life signs detector working yet?  
  
McKAY (having completely forgotten about it): Ooh, of course.  
  
(He pats his pockets until he finds the one that has the detector in it, takes
it out and looks at it. It shows two dots in the centre of the screen,
depicting himself and Teyla, two single dots some distance away to the south
west and north east of his location ... and a massive clump of dots to the
north.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, my God.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
McKAY: I am reading a _ton_ of life signs near you.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, define “ton” ... and define “near.”  
  
McKAY: Uh, a few dozen. I mean, they’re all bunched together.  
  
SHEPPARD (hopefully): Prisoners in a holding cell, maybe?  
  
TEYLA: Or worse.  
  
(Out in the tunnels to the north, Michael walks to a door and opens it. His
Super-Wraiths growl and begin to leave the room.)  
  
McKAY (looking at his detector): Whatever they are, someone just released them
and they’re headed your way.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, crap!  
  
(His eyes widen as he hears the creatures growling in the distance. He turns
and aims his rifle back the way he came, uncertain which direction they’re
coming from.)  
  
  
TUNNELS. Ronon progresses onwards, aiming his blaster cautiously. As he swings
around a corner, a Super-Wraith is waiting for him. It grabs him, roaring, and
slams him against the wall, its facial pincers reaching for him. He pulls a
knife out and stabs it. As it screams and recoils a little, he aims his
blaster straight into its mouth and fires. Blood and gore spatters against the
opposite wall as the creature drops to the floor. Ronon looks back around the
corner and sees another creature running down the corridor towards him,
growling. He draws his sword and goes out to meet it.  
  
  
LAB. Rodney is looking at his life signs detector, directing John over the
radio.  
  
McKAY: Keep going, straight up the tunnel. Ronon should be coming around the
corner towards you ... now.  
  
(Someone does indeed come around the corner at that moment, but it’s not
Ronon. It’s Michael, aiming a Wraith stunner at John. John snatches out his
pistol and aims it at him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: It’s not Ronon.  
  
McKAY (nervously): It’s one of the bugs?  
  
SHEPPARD (smiling humourlessly): Michael.  
  
MICHAEL: Colonel Sheppard.  
  
SHEPPARD: No offence, but I was kinda hoping never to see you again.  
  
MICHAEL: I had hoped just the opposite.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, then, you’ve seen me. Now, say your goodbyes. But first, give
me the control crystals to the D.H.D.  
  
MICHAEL: I don’t think so.  
  
SHEPPARD: Or I can just kill you.  
  
MICHAEL: Unless I stun you first.  
  
(He glances up as movement can be heard in the air shafts above his head. John
also glances up nervously.)  
  
SHEPPARD: As much as I’d like to sit around chatting ...  
  
MICHAEL: Extraordinary, aren’t they?  
  
SHEPPARD: Your army of bug people?  
  
MICHAEL: I thought you’d be impressed.  
  
SHEPPARD: Not so much.  
  
MICHAEL: After all, I’m merely continuing the experiment your people began.  
  
SHEPPARD: What then? Take over the entire galaxy? That’s a little too Doctor
Evil if you ask me.  
  
McKAY (over radio): Sheppard, the creatures are closing in on you fast. You’d
better get moving.  
  
SHEPPARD: You and Teyla go to the Gate. We’ll meet you there.  
  
McKAY: Alright.  
  
(John continues to stare at Michael as the noises in the air shafts get
louder.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Give me the control crystal.  
  
MICHAEL: I can’t do that, Colonel.  
  
SHEPPARD: Just so we’re clear, I have no problem killing you.  
  
(Michael stares at him a moment longer, then slowly lowers his stunner and
deliberately walks closer to John’s pistol, never breaking eye contact.)  
  
MICHAEL: And I have no problem with dying, because even if you kill me right
now, I’ll die knowing that you and your team did not get off this planet
alive.  
  
(Behind John, a Super-Wraith rises up as if out of nowhere, grabs him and
throws him down the corridor. It races after him and jumps on top of him. As
it struggles with him, Ronon comes charging down the corridor. Michael turns
and runs off. John fires his pistol into the creature at close range and it
screams as it is blown off him. John jumps up and he and Ronon chase after
Michael. Another couple of Super-Wraiths run down the corridor towards them.
Ronon guns both of them down, then he and John run through the door that
Michael just went through.)  
  
  
Elsewhere, Teyla and Rodney have reached the rope system that they used to
descend into the tunnels.  
  
TEYLA: Go!  
  
(Rodney runs over to the ropes, then looks at Teyla plaintively.)  
  
McKAY: Rope climbing’s the reason I got bronze instead of silver in the
ParticipACTION programme.  
  
TEYLA: What?!  
  
(A Super-Wraith growls not far away. Teyla runs back a little to look out for
it, glancing back at Rodney.)  
  
TEYLA: Hurry! They’re coming!  
  
(Grimacing, Rodney starts to climb as Teyla sends a hail of bullets back down
the corridor.)  
  
(Nearby, John and Ronon race down a corridor and are confronted by another
Super-Wraith. They gun it down, then turn to see another one, which they also
shoot down. Ronon quickly turns back the other way but for the moment the
coast is clear in both directions.)  
  
SHEPPARD: This is messed up.  
  
(He looks to his left and spots something.)  
  
SHEPPARD: This must be where they got up.  
  
DEX: What?  
  
SHEPPARD: Air shafts. It’s about _time_ we used ‘em.  
  
(He heads to the ladder and begins to climb. Ronon keeps watch on the
corridor, then follows him. Shortly afterwards, John pushes open the cover to
the shaft and climbs out into the night. He aims his rifle back down into the
shaft as Ronon climbs out, then jumps down to the ground. Ronon goes to follow
him, then turns back as Super-Wraiths growl down in the shaft. He fires three
blasts back down, then jumps down. John is staring at the sight of a Wraith
Dart parked not far away.)  
  
DEX: Michael’s.  
  
SHEPPARD: No doubt.  
  
DEX: Are you thinkin’ what I’m thinkin’?  
  
SHEPPARD: I fly it; pick you, Rodney and Teyla up; we use the Dart’s D.H.D. to
dial the Gate.  
  
DEX: I was thinking, “Blow it up,” but your idea’s better. Get movin’.  
  
(As John runs toward the Dart, Ronon jumps back up onto the top of the air
shaft just as a Super-Wraith’s claw reaches up to seize the lip of the shaft.
He fires down at it and it screams and drops. Ronon continues firing as more
creatures try to climb up, then turns at the sound of roaring in the forest
nearby. He jumps down from the shaft and aims his blaster out into the
darkness. He turns in circles as Super-Wraiths move towards him from all
directions. There are way too many for him to fend all of them off.)  
  
DEX (yelling): Sheppard!  
  
(The Dart can be heard powering up. It lifts off the ground and soars into the
sky. Ronon guns down the nearest creatures, wielding his sword with his other
hand. The Dart swoops over him and its transporter beam whisks him away.)  
  
  
Elsewhere, Rodney and Teyla are running for the Gate. Rodney’s life signs
detector beeps.  
  
McKAY: Wait!  
  
TEYLA: What is it?  
  
McKAY: Life signs up ahead.  
  
TEYLA: Colonel Sheppard? Ronon?  
  
(Super-Wraiths roar nearby.)  
  
McKAY: Doesn’t sound like it.  
  
(They both raise their rifles. The detector begins to beep faster. Rodney
looks at it again.)  
  
McKAY: Life signs behind us, too. It’s closing in fast. Oh boy!  
  
(The two of them stand back to back as the detector shows scores of dots
approaching them from all directions.)  
  
McKAY: We’re surrounded.  
  
(The two of them circle around nervously, keeping their backs to each other as
the growling gets closer. Suddenly a Wraith stunner beam lashes out and hits
Teyla, who cries out and collapses. Rodney turns in the direction the beam
came from, trying to see who’s firing at them. He too is struck and falls to
the ground. Michael walks out of the darkness towards them. As he reaches
them, he looks up at the sound of a Dart approaching. The Dart swoops overhead
and its transporter beam scoops up Rodney and Teyla before screaming away.
Michael is left alone, frustrated and angry.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS CONTROL ROOM. The Gate dials in. The technician checks his console.  
  
TECHNICIAN: Incoming wormhole. Colonel Sheppard’s I.D.C.  
  
WEIR: Lower the shield.  
  
(As the technician does so, Elizabeth heads down the stairs into the Gateroom.
She hesitates when she sees only Team Sheppard come through.)  
  
WEIR: Are you alright? Where are the marines?  
  
SHEPPARD: Didn’t make it.  
  
WEIR: What?!  
  
(Rodney has a large and rather clumsy-looking dressing covering the slash on
his cheek.)  
  
McKAY: We barely made it ourselves. We had to commandeer a Wraith Dart just to
dial out.  
  
SHEPPARD: We ditched it on another planet. Didn’t wanna risk damaging the
Control Room. Daedalus can pick it up later.  
  
WEIR: What happened to the Taranans?  
  
DEX: They’re dead -- all of them.  
  
(He walks away.)  
  
WEIR (to the other three): Wait a minute. Lieutenant Negley sent a message
saying they’d just relocated to a new settlement.  
  
TEYLA (shaking her head): No. It was Michael. He sent the transmission. He’s
the one that killed the Taranans.  
  
WEIR: Michael?!  
  
SHEPPARD: We’ll tell you about it in a minute, but first, is the Daedalus here
yet?  
  
WEIR: It’s still a few days out. Why?  
  
SHEPPARD: We’re gonna need it to make another stop on the way.  
  
WEIR: OK.  
  
(They head for the Control Room.)  
  
  
SOME TIME LATER. Elizabeth walks out of the Gateroom, lost in unhappy thought.
Teyla meets her and notices her expression.  
  
TEYLA: Elizabeth?  
  
WEIR: I just came from McKay’s lab. He’s been examining the research he was
able to upload from Michael’s experiment.  
  
TEYLA: Has he been able to determine just how many more of those creatures
Michael was able to create?  
  
WEIR: Well, not an exact figure, no, but Rodney believes it’s well into the
hundreds.  
  
(Teyla’s eyes widen.)  
  
WEIR: Yeah. And it appears Michael has similar labs on at least three
different planets.  
  
(Teyla shakes her head in shock.)  
  
TEYLA: It is amazing how quickly he has been able to incorporate our science
into his.  
  
(Elizabeth nods, looking down miserably.)  
  
TEYLA: What is it?  
  
WEIR: Michael found out about the Taranan settlement through information the
Wraith hacked from our database during our brief alliance with them last year.
We led Michael straight to them.  
  
  
LATER. ELIZABETH’S OFFICE. As Elizabeth sits at her desk, John walks in.  
  
SHEPPARD: Colonel Caldwell just radioed. They did a full sweep of the planet.
No life signs. They searched the settlement: no Michael, no creatures.  
  
WEIR: He already dialled out.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. We got the control crystal back in the D.H.D. Rodney’s trying
to figure out the last address dialled but you know how long that takes.  
  
WEIR: I’m sure Michael immediately dialled elsewhere to cover his tracks.  
  
SHEPPARD: You can count on that.  
  
WEIR: We _need_ to find him. He’s _already_ too dangerous.  
  
SHEPPARD: And I’m sure we’re number one on his hit list.

