ATLANTIS. In a lab, Rodney McKay stands and frowns at a number of whiteboards
in front of him. Behind him, several scientists, including Radek Zelenka, are
seated at various desks and are all frowning down at their laptops. Rodney
purses his lips thoughtfully.  
  
McKAY: Hmm. Maybe if we, umm ...  
  
(Everyone looks up at him hopefully.)  
  
McKAY: No. No.  
  
(The scientists sigh, one sinking his head into his hands. A female scientist
speaks.)  
  
SCIENTIST: Why don't we bring the Wraith in on this?  
  
McKAY (without turning round): No.  
  
SCIENTIST: A lot of this new nanite coding is based on his calculations, so
maybe ...  
  
McKAY (interrupting): (A) he wouldn't help us, (B) we don't _need_ his help
and (C) ... someone get me some coffee.  
  
SCIENTIST: You've been silently staring at that board for three hours.  
  
McKAY: Yeah-yeah-yeah. It'll come to me.  
  
ZELENKA: Just e-mail her, already.  
  
(The other scientists flinch, grimacing at Radek's nerve. Rodney slowly turns
around to face him.)  
  
McKAY: _Excuse_ me?!  
  
ZELENKA: Rodney, we're stuck. We've been stuck for ten hours. Just ask her for
help, _please_.  
  
McKAY (pointing to himself): I'm not stuck.  
  
ZELENKA: The last time we had a block like this, she helped us through it,
right?  
  
McKAY: That was something completely different.  
  
ZELENKA: I cannot sit here waiting for you to have an epiphany! I'm losing the
will to live!  
  
(Rodney looks round at the scientists, reluctantly realising that Radek may be
right.)  
  
McKAY: I suppose there could be more important things I should be working on.  
  
ZELENKA: However you want to sell it to yourself, that's fine.  
  
(He shuts down the lid of his laptop. The female scientist follows his lead
and shuts her laptop's lid. Everyone else follows suit, closing their laptops,
and they all stand up and leave the room, leaving Rodney alone.)  
  
McKAY: Hmm!  
  
  
EARTH. VANCOUVER. MILLER RESIDENCE. In the kitchen, Jeanie and Kaleb Miller
are watching their daughter Madison as she finishes patting out cake dough
into the shape of a huge cookie.  
  
MADISON: Done! Done!  
  
KALEB: Just one big cookie?  
  
MADISON: Yeah.  
  
JEANIE: Don't you wanna use your cutters?  
  
MADISON: Nah. I just want a big one.  
  
(Jeanie and Kaleb giggle. Just then Jeanie's laptop, which is on a nearby
cabinet, beeps notification of a new e-mail. As she goes over to it and washes
cookie dough from her hands, Kaleb walks over to Madison.)  
  
KALEB: You may wanna flatten the dough a _little_ bit.  
  
MADISON: No.  
  
KALEB: No? Just a giant cookie mountain? That's what you're going for?  
  
MADISON: Yeah!  
  
KALEB: OK!  
  
(Jeanie opens her e-mail and starts to read it.)  
  
KALEB: Anything good?  
  
JEANIE: It's from my brother. (She reads on.) He's stuck again! Do you mind if
I ...?  
  
KALEB: Yeah, I got this.  
  
(He looks at Madison who is sprinkling flour on top of her dough, and picks up
another bowl of dough.)  
  
KALEB: Here, do you wanna help with mine?  
  
MADISON: OK.  
  
KALEB: OK.  
  
MADISON: I want a _lot_ of flour.  
  
KALEB: How about some more chocolate chips?  
  
MADISON: But not the full bowl.  
  
KALEB: No, that would be too many.  
  
(As they continue working, Jeanie opens a notebook on the work surface and,
stopping to think occasionally, starts to write.)  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. Jeanie and Kaleb are in bed. Jeanie turns over towards him and
opens her eyes, seeing that he's awake.  
  
JEANIE: You can't sleep?  
  
KALEB: I thought I heard something.  
  
JEANIE: Madison?  
  
KALEB: I don't know. I'll check it out.  
  
(He gets out of bed.)  
  
JEANIE: She probably just snuck downstairs for more cookies.  
  
(Kaleb laughs.)  
  
KALEB: That's actually not a bad idea.  
  
(Before he can reach the door, it is kicked open and several men dressed in
black riot gear and wearing helmets burst into the room, aiming pistols with
laser sights on them. One of them knocks Kaleb to the floor. Jeanie cries out
in terror as another man walks towards her aiming his gun at her. She cringes
against the bed head as the beam from the laser steadies against her head.)  
  
MAN: You're coming with us.  
  
  
STARGATE COMMAND (S.G.C.). In the Gateroom, the Stargate is open. Rodney walks
through with John Sheppard and Ronon Dex. They walk down the ramp as Agent
Malcolm Barrett walks in.  
  
BARRETT: Gentlemen. I'm Agent Barrett. I work for the N.I.D. Mr Woolsey has
asked me to help you any way that I can. I'm sorry that we couldn't meet under
better circumstances.  
  
McKAY: Have the kidnappers tried to make contact with us yet?  
  
BARRETT: No, I'm afraid not.  
  
McKAY: OK. Well, I need to get to Vancouver.  
  
BARRETT: OK, the Daedalus is in orbit, so it will be a quick trip.  
  
(He leads them out of the Gateroom.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Have you learned any new information yet?  
  
BARRETT: No, not yet. The N.I.D. is liaising with C.S.I.S. _[pronounced "see-
sis"]_ on the ground. They are expecting us.  
  
SHEPPARD: C-_what_, now?  
  
McKAY: Canadian Security Intelligence Services. They're kind of like our
C.I.A.  
  
SHEPPARD (sarcastically): C.S.I.S. That's the best you guys can do, huh?  
  
(Barrett leads them into an elevator.)  
  
BARRETT: We will be out in the open, so perhaps a change of clothes first.  
  
(He looks pointedly at Ronon.)  
  
DEX: Why?  
  
  
VANCOUVER. Several cars are parked outside the Miller house and police
officers are wandering about. Another car pulls up and Barrett and the
Atlantis boys get out. Ronon is now wearing blue jeans, a white shirt and a
black jacket.  
  
DEX: I look dumb!  
  
SHEPPARD: Helps you blend in a little.  
  
DEX: I'm gonna stand out no matter _what_ you dress me in.  
  
SHEPPARD (looking at his hair): That's a good point.  
  
(Various onlookers are standing around watching all the activity. Most of them
are just gawking, but one of them looks particularly interested in the new
arrivals. He takes out his mobile phone and presses a speed-dial number.)  
  
(Inside the house, Kaleb and Madison are sitting on the sofa. Some of
Madison's toys and games are on the table in front of them – Kaleb has
obviously been trying to distract her while various C.S.I.S. officers are
working in the room. Kaleb points as Rodney leads the others in.)  
  
KALEB: Hey, look, it's your Uncle Mer.  
  
McKAY (to Madison): Hey, lady.  
  
KALEB (to Madison): You gonna say hi?  
  
MADISON (looking up at Rodney): Where's Mum?  
  
McKAY: Uh, she ...  
  
KALEB (to Madison): I told you, she's had to go away for a bit, but she's
gonna come back soon, OK?  
  
(He looks at Rodney and points in the direction of the kitchen.)  
  
KALEB: Can I, uh ...?  
  
McKAY: Yeah.  
  
KALEB (to Madison): OK, sweetie?  
  
(He stands up and leads Rodney to the kitchen.)  
  
KALEB: Who did this?  
  
McKAY: We're not sure, but we have the best people in the world working on
this and all the resources ...  
  
KALEB (interrupting): You know, when you came back here last year, she almost
didn't go back with you to Atlantis. I said, "Go. You _have_ to do it. You'll
regret not going."  
  
McKAY: I know you did.  
  
KALEB: She knew it was gonna be dangerous but you two are so competitive.  
  
McKAY: Listen to me, we're gonna ...  
  
KALEB (interrupting): This is your fault, Rodney.  
  
McKAY: Hey, just a second.  
  
KALEB: She got kidnapped because of you.  
  
McKAY: OK, we do _not_ know that for sure.  
  
KALEB: We don't? Really?(!) You figure four masked men with guns broke in here
to steal her secret apple dumpling recipe? Jealous neighbour, maybe?  
  
McKAY: OK, you're angry. You have every right to be ...  
  
KALEB (interrupting, anguished): If something happens to her ...  
  
McKAY: Kaleb. We're gonna find her.  
  
KALEB: Just bring her back. Bring her home.  
  
McKAY: I will.  
  
  
Shortly afterwards, Kaleb walks back into the living room where John is
sitting next to Madison, playing with her.  
  
KALEB: C'mon, Mad.  
  
(He picks her up.)  
  
MADISON: Where are we going?  
  
KALEB: Just away for a bit.  
  
(As he carries her out of the room, John stands up and walks over to Rodney.)  
  
McKAY: I told ‘em to get a hotel. There's no reason for them to stick around
here.  
  
BARRETT (to the C.S.I.S. officers): All right, thanks, guys. Give us the room,
please.  
  
(The officers leave.)  
  
BARRETT (to Rodney): So where d'you wanna start?  
  
McKAY: Jeanie and I were corresponding via e-mail. She was ... umm ...  
  
(He hesitates, reluctant to admit that she was helping him with a problem.)  
  
McKAY: I was bouncing some ideas off her.  
  
BARRETT: What about?  
  
McKAY: Well, before Sheppard's Wraith showed up, I was trying to perfect my
nanite medical programme.  
  
DEX: That thing you used to save Weir?  
  
McKAY: Yeah – a better, more complex version of that, but yeah. Of course, as
soon as we found out that the Replicators were attacking human worlds
throughout the galaxy, we obviously switched our focus to shutting _them_ down
once and for all.  
  
BARRETT: And you sent Jeanie the programme that you were working on?  
  
McKAY: Yeah. I just – I needed a new set of eyes.  
  
SHEPPARD: The question is, what does it have to do with her being taken?  
  
McKAY: Yeah. Maybe The Trust, or some other Earth-based organisation wanted
info on me or about the programme. Look, regardless, my e-mail and her capture
happened too close together not to be connected.  
  
BARRETT: Right. It sounds like a great place to start.  
  
McKAY: Has anyone touched her computer?  
  
BARRETT: No. No, I told them that you wanted to have a look at it first.
Nobody's touched it.  
  
McKAY (going to the desk where the laptop is): I'm gonna need to take it
apart.  
  
(He sits down and looks up at the others.)  
  
McKAY: This is gonna take some time. Why don't you get back to the hotel? I'll
call you if I find anything.  
  
SHEPPARD: That's OK. We'll stay.  
  
McKAY: Seriously, this could take ten or twelve hours. Just ... there's
nothing you can do here. Just go back to the hotel. I'll call you if I find
anything.  
  
(John looks at Ronon and jerks his head towards the door. They leave and
Rodney gets to work.)  
  
  
A LAB SOMEWHERE. A guard opens the door and a second guard hustles Jeanie into
the room. Her hands are bound in front of her with plastic tethers and she has
a hood over her head. The room has computers all around the walls, and there
are several tables together in the middle of the room with more computers on
them. The guard pushes Jeanie down into a chair and takes the hood off her
head, then he and the other guard leave, closing the door behind them. Jeanie
squints against the light, then stands up and looks around the room. She runs
towards the door but before she can reach it, a man's voice speaks.  
  
WALLACE: Here.  
  
(Jeanie turns and sees the man standing on the other side of the room. He
walks towards her, snapping open a flick-knife. Jeanie backs away from him,
terrified.)  
  
JEANIE: No. Wait. Please.  
  
WALLACE: Shh. It's all right.  
  
(He holds out his other hand towards her bound wrists.)  
  
WALLACE: Let me?  
  
(He cuts her tethers. Jeanie backs away from him again.)  
  
JEANIE: Who are you?  
  
WALLACE: My name is Henry Wallace. I'm sorry to have ...  
  
(He gestures to her apologetically for a moment as she stands there in her
night wear, then looks at her resolutely.)  
  
WALLACE: I need you to do some work for me.  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. HOTEL. John and Ronon are sitting in the room as John's phone
rings. He gets up and walks across to the table where the phone is lying,
picks it up and answers.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hello.  
  
(Rodney is in a car being driven by Agent Barrett.)  
  
McKAY (into phone): So someone _was_ monitoring my sister's computer. I think
I've cracked their Trojan and I've got an address. Barrett and I are on our
way there now.  
  
SHEPPARD: Thought you said it was gonna take ten hours?  
  
McKAY: Hey, even _I_ underestimate how smart I am sometimes.  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, stay at the house and then we'll all go together.  
  
McKAY: It's too late – we're almost there. I'll give you an address. You can
meet us.  
  
(John sighs and reaches for a pen.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Go ahead.  
  
  
LATER. Rodney and Barrett walk towards a warehouse.  
  
McKAY: This looks like the place.  
  
BARRETT: Shouldn't we wait for Sheppard and Ronon?  
  
(Rodney waves his hand negatively, then looks at the door they're
approaching.)  
  
McKAY: OK, stand back.  
  
(He braces himself to kick the door down. At the same moment, Barrett turns
the door handle and the door opens. Rodney's foot kicks thin air. He hops on
his other foot, trying to keep his balance.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, well, that works too.  
  
(Barrett takes out a pistol. Rodney walks in the door holding a torch, then
looks back at Barrett's gun.)  
  
McKAY: Don't happen to have another one of those on you, do you?  
  
BARRETT: Yeah, I've got a shotgun in the car.  
  
(He steps backwards, intending to go to his car but a stormtrooper dressed in
black appears out of nowhere and grabs him, punching him in the face. A second
man heads towards Rodney, the laser sight of his gun trained on him. Rodney's
eyes widen and he holds his hands up to protect his face as the man comes
closer.)  
  
  
LATER. John and Ronon drive onto the forecourt of the warehouse and screech to
a halt at the sight of Barrett lying on the ground. Ronon has the passenger
door open even before the car stops and is standing up leaning out of the car
and aiming a pistol around. He keeps an eye on the area as John jumps out and
runs over to Barrett.  
  
SHEPPARD: You OK?  
  
(Barrett is conscious but has a nasty cut over his right eye.)  
  
SHEPPARD (helping him to sit up): What the hell happened?  
  
BARRETT: Two men. They must have been following us.  
  
DEX (calling out): McKay!  
  
BARRETT: He's not here. They took him.  
  
  
WALLACE'S LAB. Two guards hustle Rodney into the lab, his hands tethered
behind him and a hood over his head. Jeanie, who has now been given some
clothes, is sitting inside the lab but stands as the guards take the hood off
Rodney's head and cut his tethers.  
  
JEANIE: Meredith?!  
  
McKAY: Jeanie! Thank God you're alive!  
  
(He hurries over to her and they hug. The guards leave the room.)  
  
JEANIE: What are you doing here?  
  
McKAY: I came back to Earth as soon as I heard you'd been kidnapped.  
  
JEANIE: Have you seen Madison and Kaleb?  
  
McKAY: Yes. They're a little shaken but they're OK. I've put a security detail
on them, so you don't have to worry.  
  
JEANIE: Then, how did you ...?  
  
McKAY: I got ambushed trying to track down the guys who took you.  
  
JEANIE: Oh, great(!) That's just great! First you get _me_ captured, then you
...  
  
McKAY: Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa. I got _you_ captured? How do you figure
_that_?!  
  
JEANIE: Oh, come _on_! They were monitoring my computer, right?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, so?  
  
JEANIE: So would I be here if you hadn't sent me those e-mails?  
  
McKAY: Well, possibly.  
  
JEANIE: Meredith!  
  
McKAY (looking around the room): What is this, a lab?  
  
JEANIE: Wow, that's some great detective work there, Nancy Drew!  
  
McKAY: Where the hell are we?  
  
JEANIE: I have no idea. They put me on a plane ...  
  
McKAY: Yes, me too. Any idea who's behind any of this?  
  
(He activates one of the computer screens. Just then the door opens and
Wallace comes in with a couple of guards.)  
  
WALLACE: Doctor McKay. I've heard a lot about you. It's a pleasure.  
  
(He offers him his hand to shake but Rodney backs away from him.)  
  
WALLACE (lowering his hand): I thought you might show up if your sister went
missing. We couldn't count on it, of course, but it's a pretty big bonus.  
  
McKAY (indignantly): _Bonus_?! Look, I have no idea who you are but you have
made a terrible mistake bringing me here. Now, I suggest you let us both go
right now, otherwise about a hundred marines are gonna come kicking down your
front door in the next two minutes.  
  
WALLACE: I'm pretty sure they won't, actually. Your subcutaneous transmitter
has been deactivated.  
  
(Rodney looks shocked.)  
  
McKAY: Who _are_ you?  
  
WALLACE: I should have started with that. (He sits down.) My name is Henry
Wallace. I'm the President of ...  
  
McKAY: ... D.M.T. Great(!)  
  
(He folds his arms angrily.)  
  
WALLACE: You know who I am, then.  
  
McKAY: I'm familiar with your work.  
  
JEANIE: What's D.M.T.?  
  
McKAY: Devlin Medical Technologies. They're a predominantly government funded
contractor and, unfortunately for us, they manufacture our subcutaneous
transmitters.  
  
JEANIE: Oh, great(!)  
  
McKAY: Yeah. (To Wallace) How do you even know I exist? Your company's only
privy to very basic information about newly-declassified experiments the
military's working on.  
  
WALLACE: No. More accurately, my company is given limited access to alien
advances discovered through the Stargate programme ...  
  
(Rodney lowers his arms, staring at him in horror.)  
  
WALLACE: ... and is asked to integrate them into Earth-based medical
technologies.  
  
McKAY: You're not cleared to know that.  
  
WALLACE: No. I'm not. But after years of being stupefied by the military's
endless and unbelievable advances, I started to do a little digging. That's
how I found out about the S.G.C., Atlantis, you ...  
  
(He then looks at Jeanie.)  
  
WALLACE: ... and that's why we've been monitoring your family's e-mails for
quite some time now.  
  
McKAY: What do you want from me?  
  
(Wallace stands up.)  
  
WALLACE: I've hit a wall and need some help.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. Somewhere else in the facility, Wallace leads Rodney and
Jeanie to some glass doors. Behind them is a hospital room with one bed in it.
Lying unconscious or asleep in the bed is a girl in her late teens.  
  
WALLACE: My daughter, Sharon.  
  
McKAY: What's wrong with her?  
  
WALLACE: She's suffering from acute lymphocytic leukaemia.  
  
McKAY: Well, I'm very sorry but ...  
  
WALLACE: She's been particularly unresponsive to induction chemotherapy,
prednisolone, vincristine, cranial irradiation ...  
  
McKAY: I don't even know what all that means. How am I supposed to help?  
  
WALLACE: The best doctors in the world have told her to start saying her
goodbyes, begin making funeral plans.  
  
(Jeanie looks at him sympathetically.)  
  
McKAY: That's what I'm saying – neither of us are doctors. Look, yes, I have a
PhD ... two, actually ...  
  
WALLACE: The latest project my company has been working on for the S.G.C.
involves applying advances in nanotechnology to cure injury and disease. We
were close to a prototype.  
  
McKAY: Wait a second, wait.  
  
WALLACE: Sharon was injected with the first batch of nanites one week ago.  
  
McKAY: You've barely got manufacturing perfected! I'm working on the coding!
It's months away! They're not ready!  
  
WALLACE: My team thought they'd ironed out most of the coding.  
  
McKAY: "Ironed out"?! It's not that easy!  
  
WALLACE: I _know_ that ... now. They're malfunctioning.  
  
McKAY: Well, of _course_ they are.  
  
WALLACE: And it's not just that they're not working. They're ... they're
actually causing more problems than the cancer. Her body's rejecting them.
When I intercepted your correspondence with Jeanie, I desperately needed
someone familiar with the coding to come fix the programming.  
  
McKAY: Right, so Jeanie was just the bait.  
  
WALLACE: No. From what I could tell, she had a firmer grasp of the coding than
_you_ did.  
  
McKAY: I don't think it's fair to judge me on a couple of e-mails. I mean,
they don't reflect the entire ...  
  
JEANIE: Meredith! It doesn't matter.  
  
WALLACE: If we don't do something quickly, Sharon's gonna die. Get the nanites
fully operational and I'll let you go.  
  
McKAY (folding his arms): Really?  
  
WALLACE: Absolutely.  
  
McKAY: And if we don't?  
  
(Wallace smiles unpleasantly at him.)  
  
  
S.G.C. John, Ronon and Barrett are in the Control Room with Walter Harriman.
Walter is looking at a screen.  
  
HARRIMAN: That's right, sir. They must have neutralised the transmitter.  
  
DEX (to Barrett): What about the lead you were following?  
  
BARRETT: Uh, dead end. It's a small rented room with a router that ported data
through a site in Singapore. I mean, who knows where it was forwarded from
there? We've got our best I.T. guys on the job, though. We're gonna start
tracing the paper trail – hopefully it's gonna turn up a lead; and we're
combing the security traffic and A.B.M. cameras from the area; we've got
ambush; talking to witnesses. We've got half the Vancouver P.D. on this one.
We're gonna get ‘em.  
  
  
WALLACE'S LAB. Rodney and Jeanie are working on different consoles. Sharon's
room can be seen on a video link on a screen on the wall.  
  
JEANIE: They're not communicating.  
  
McKAY: What?  
  
JEANIE: The nanites. That's what's causing all the problems – they're going
after some cells redundantly; they're ignoring others. They've caused at least
three partially-clogged arteries. Something in their coding is stopping them
from understanding each other.  
  
McKAY (distractedly): Great, great.  
  
JEANIE (looking across at him): Are you even listening to me?  
  
McKAY: Nah, you lost me at "nanites".  
  
(Jeanie clicks her fingers at him.)  
  
JEANIE: Hey, idiot. We need to solve this coding problem.  
  
McKAY: No, what we need to do is get the hell out of here.  
  
JEANIE: I _know_ – by solving the coding problem.  
  
McKAY (sighing): So young and so naïve.  
  
JEANIE: You got a better idea?  
  
McKAY: Yes! Look, they gave these computers network access so we could monitor
Sharon in real-time, right? Which means _I_ can also hack into the security
mainframe.  
  
JEANIE: What about Sharon?  
  
McKAY: What about _us_?  
  
JEANIE: We can _do_ this, Mer. We can _help_ this girl.  
  
McKAY: And then what? He's just gonna let us go? What, you think he's just
gonna give up his life, lose his company, get carted off to prison – you think
he'll be fine with that?  
  
JEANIE: He's desperate. I think any parent would understand.  
  
McKAY: Oh, you think. All right, let's just for a second imagine that we live
in this magical land of unicorns and wizards and kind-hearted people who you
can take at their word. Let's assume that he lets us go if we save her. But
what if we fail, huh? What if she dies? How happy d'you think he'll be then?
You think he'll let us just waltz out the door with an "Aw shucks. Well,
better luck next time, tiger" attitude?  
  
(Jeanie sits back. She's not happy thinking that way but realises that Rodney
may be right.)  
  
McKAY: Exactly. We need to get out of here. I've been working on a code to
unlock all the keypad doors.  
  
(He stands up and look at Jeanie.)  
  
McKAY: You ready?  
  
JEANIE: What happens after you get the door open?  
  
McKAY: Well, I memorised the building's layout from this computer here.  
  
(Jeanie sighs nervously.)  
  
JEANIE: OK.  
  
(Rodney types on his computer. Over the floor plan of the building, a message
comes up saying, "DOOR CODES: RELEASED." The door of the room buzzes, the lock
deactivates and the door drifts open slightly. Jeanie looks at it in
surprise.)  
  
JEANIE: Huh!  
  
McKAY: C'mon.  
  
(They go to the door and Rodney peers out cautiously. When he's sure there's
no-one around, he looks at Jeanie, then they leave the room, Jeanie closing
the door behind them. They make their way along the corridors, then Rodney
looks around before turning left. Not totally trusting him, Jeanie goes to the
door on their right, looks through the small window in it and tries the door
but it's locked. Throwing up her hands in frustration, she turns to follow her
brother.)  
  
JEANIE (whispering): You _said_ there was a stairway entrance here.  
  
McKAY (whispering): There's supposed to be! (He points to a blacked-out window
on the wall.) Um, OK, wait. W-w-w-w-wait. Uh, we've gotta go back.  
  
JEANIE: Go back? Why?!  
  
McKAY: Because I got all mixed around. We've gotta start again. Maybe what I
thought was north was south. It's hard to tell.  
  
(Jeanie sighs in irritation.)  
  
JEANIE: I can't believe I am betting my life on your sense of direction!  
  
McKAY: What are you talking about?! I've got an excellent sense of direction!  
  
JEANIE: Oh, really? Remember when we went to West Edmonton Mall and Dad had to
call the police to find you?  
  
McKAY: That mall was huge!  
  
JEANIE: There were maps every seven metres!  
  
McKAY: Misleading ones! Now, _come_ on – we've gotta go back.  
  
(He heads back the way they just came. Furious, Jeanie follows him.)  
  
  
WALLACE'S OFFICE. Wallace walks into his office and looks at the security
screens on the wall. The one showing the lab reveals that nobody's in there.
He picks up the phone and dials.  
  
  
CORRIDORS. Alarms begin to sound.  
  
McKAY: Ah, sh...  
  
(He and Jeanie start to run, but two guards run around the corner in front of
them, aiming pistols at them.)  
  
McKAY: Run!  
  
(He and Jeanie turn and run back the other way but one of the guards fires
into Rodney's back. His pistol is a Taser and Rodney collapses to the ground,
convulsing as electricity arcs through him. The shock ceases after a few
seconds and he lapses into unconsciousness.)  
  
  
LATER. Rodney's eyes slowly flicker open and he raises his head. He's back in
the lab, tied at the wrists to a chair. Jeanie sits opposite him, also tied to
her chair. Wallace stands nearby watching Rodney as he pulls himself together.
He walks closer to him and looks down at him, clearly upset.  
  
WALLACE: Why would you do that? Why would ...  
  
(He shakes his head and walks across the room to the screen showing Sharon's
room.)  
  
WALLACE: My daughter is dying.  
  
McKAY: You kidnapped us. What did you expect?  
  
WALLACE: I shouldn't have given you network access.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, that's a rookie mistake.  
  
JEANIE: Meredith.  
  
WALLACE: You're never gonna help me, are you?  
  
McKAY: You're gonna kill us either way. What exactly is our incentive?  
  
WALLACE: I gave you my word.  
  
McKAY: Which means exactly _nothing_ to me.  
  
(Wallace looks down at him pleadingly.)  
  
WALLACE: Please. My wife died three years ago. I can't go through that again.
Sharon's all I have. You can save her.  
  
McKAY: Look, this is a experimental medical programme. It may never work. All
this might have been for nothing.  
  
WALLACE: Worst case scenario. I thought I would have weeks with Sharon. Now,
if things stay as they are, I'm lucky to have days.  
  
McKAY: You never should have injected her.  
  
(Wallace looks at him, then glances across to Jeanie, his face desperate. He
walks across to a case on a nearby table and opens it.)  
  
WALLACE: No. No. It _will_ work.  
  
(He takes out a large syringe and holds it up as he walks up behind Jeanie.)  
  
WALLACE: It _has_ to work.  
  
McKAY: What _is_ that?  
  
WALLACE: A dose of nanites.  
  
(He brushes Jeanie's hair away from her neck. She stares at Rodney tearfully
in terror.)  
  
JEANIE: Meredith!  
  
McKAY: Wait-wait-wait, please. No.  
  
WALLACE: I'm sorry. You need an incentive?  
  
McKAY: Don't!  
  
(But Wallace plunges the syringe into Jeanie's neck and injects her. Rodney
stares at him in horror as he pulls the syringe out again.)  
  
WALLACE: Fix this, or they both die.  
  
  
LATER. The siblings have been untied and are working on their computers again.
Jeanie sighs as if in pain and rubs her neck where she was injected. Rodney
looks at her.  
  
McKAY: You OK?  
  
JEANIE: Yeah. I'm fine.  
  
McKAY: Good. Well, you were right. They're not communicating. They're not
doing a _lot_ of things they should be doing, in fact.  
  
JEANIE: Yeah, I know.  
  
McKAY: See, the thing is, even though D.M.T. manufactured their own nanites,
their coding, their programming – most of it's lifted directly from the
Replicators.  
  
JEANIE: Right.  
  
McKAY: The thing is, much as I hate to admit it, we're only just beginning to
understand that coding. The Wraith we've been working with has helped us make
leaps and bounds but ...  
  
JEANIE: Wait a second. You've been working with a _Wraith_?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, it's a long story.  
  
(He stands up and goes over to her console.)  
  
McKAY: What I'm trying to say is: this programme that we're pushing on it is
designed to restrain them very specifically to make sure they don't get out of
control. So much so ...  
  
JEANIE: ... that they're completely ineffective.  
  
McKAY: It's like we tied their hands behind their backs.  
  
JEANIE: So we have to cut them loose.  
  
McKAY: Exactly. These nanites can't replicate. Technically, by unleashing them
we might make all our little problems go away.  
  
JEANIE: OK. That shouldn't be too complex, altering two, maybe three thousand
lines of code(!)  
  
McKAY (unconvincingly, as he returns to his console): Yeah, it's a cinch.  
  
JEANIE: Yeah!  
  
(She starts to type. Rodney looks at her.)  
  
McKAY: Look, I'm really sorry about all of this.  
  
JEANIE (not looking at him): I really don't wanna talk about this right now,
OK? We need to write this programme and upload it to my nanites. I will yell
at you later, OK?  
  
McKAY: OK.  
  
(He sits down, then looks at his sister sadly for a moment before getting back
to work. Jeanie glances at him briefly, then carries on typing.)  
  
  
S.G.C. John, Ronon and Barrett are sitting in an office poring over a stack of
papers. There are several boxes of papers already in the room and now a
soldier brings in another box and puts it on the desk.  
  
SHEPPARD: We're goin' in circles here.  
  
DEX: I don't even get what we're doing.  
  
BARRETT: We're trying to match the corporations. See, the company that rented
the space for the internet router was owned by another company, which was
owned by another, and owned by another.  
  
SHEPPARD: Trying to connect the company that was monitoring Jeanie's computer
to a company that would want to take her.  
  
BARRETT: Probably a company owned by The Trust. We just haven't found a
connection.  
  
SHEPPARD: They know enough to shut down the transmitter.  
  
BARRETT: Exactly. You know, the fact that they even _knew_ that tells us that
they're pretty intimate with the operations of the Stargate programme. Again,
The Trust.  
  
SHEPPARD: We should widen the net. Maybe it wasn't one of them.  
  
BARRETT: Other known enemy groups?  
  
DEX: Or an ally.  
  
BARRETT: Chinese, Russians.  
  
SHEPPARD: McKay said he was working on a programme to shut down the
Replicators. Was he working in tandem with anyone here on Earth?  
  
BARRETT: No. Not that I know of. Wait – there was a medical company that was
working on other nanite programmes, but they didn't have any direct dealings
with him.  
  
SHEPPARD: Which company was that?  
  
BARRETT: I don't know. Give me a sec – I'll find out.  
  
(He leaves the room. Ronon gets up and starts to leave too.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Where're _you_ going?  
  
DEX: To get some food.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, in case you forgot, McKay and his sister are still missing.  
  
DEX: What, you want my help dissecting corporate structures? When you find
someone to point a gun at, you let me know.  
  
SHEPPARD: Fair enough!  
  
  
WALLACE'S LAB. Rodney is pacing around the lab.  
  
McKAY: What's it been, a couple of hours?  
  
JEANIE: Something like that.  
  
McKAY: So, what, no updates? I mean, I know we're hostages an' all, but come
on! It took me, like, ten seconds to upload the programme to you. What's
taking _them_ so much time?  
  
JEANIE: It's gonna take a while to figure out if our coding patch actually
makes the nanites fight the cancer.  
  
McKAY: When we activated them in Weir, she was healed almost instantly.  
  
JEANIE: But that time the Replicator cells actually _replaced_ her damaged
cells. Our guys have to _heal_ them.  
  
McKAY: But still! By now they should have seen massive changes in her
condition. I mean, why aren't they telling us anything?  
  
JEANIE: OK, sit down. You're driving me crazy.  
  
(Rodney sits down and folds his arms, glaring at her in a sulky way. Jeanie
looks awkward, then thinks of something to talk about.)  
  
JEANIE: So, are you gonna marry that Katie girl?  
  
McKAY: What?!  
  
JEANIE: You heard me!  
  
McKAY (unfolding his arms): Where did _that_ come from?!  
  
JEANIE: I'm trying to take my mind off the fact that I have tiny robots
running through my veins because _you_ needed help with your homework. Would
you rather talk about that?  
  
McKAY: Not really.  
  
JEANIE: So, are you gonna marry her?  
  
McKAY: I don't know.  
  
JEANIE: You've been dating for over a year now.  
  
McKAY: I'm aware of that, thank you!  
  
JEANIE: You think you're gonna find someone better?  
  
McKAY: No, it's not that.  
  
JEANIE (laughing): ‘Cause you're not!  
  
McKAY: Hang on ...  
  
JEANIE: The fact that you found a nice girl who's willing to put up with all
your many little flaws is a miracle.  
  
McKAY: Look ...  
  
JEANIE: Plus, physically you're ... well, how do I put this? You're no John
Sheppard.  
  
McKAY: OK. (He stands up.) Let's go back to talking about how this is my
fault, because I think I liked that better ...  
  
(He trails off as the door opens and a guard comes in.)  
  
GUARD: Come with me.  
  
  
SHARON'S ROOM. Sharon is sitting up in bed, with her father sitting at her
bedside. He stands as the siblings approach the door and beckons to them.  
  
WALLACE: Oh, come in, come in. Sharon, I wanna introduce you to Rodney McKay,
Jeanie Miller. They're the ones that saved you.  
  
(He sits down again as Sharon smiles at them.)  
  
SHARON: It's very nice to meet you. Thank you so much.  
  
JEANIE: How are you feeling?  
  
SHARON: Better than I felt in years.  
  
McKAY: And the cancer?  
  
WALLACE: We can't find any trace of it.  
  
(Sharon smiles happily.)  
  
  
S.G.C. COMMISSARY. Ronon has been joined at his table by Walter.  
  
HARRIMAN: I'm nervous, right, because, you know, it's an admiral I'm talking
to. So I say to him, "Sir, if you use an I-37 form instead of an N-1, you can
save yourself from using like, like, like a hundred G-72s." And there's this
pause.  
  
(Ronon reaches for something on his plate but before he can get it to his
mouth, Walter grabs his wrist.)  
  
HARRIMAN: No-one says anything for, like, I dunno, it felt like minutes.  
  
(Ronon drops his food back onto his plate and sinks back in his seat, bored to
death.)  
  
HARRIMAN: And _finally_, the admiral looks over at Landry and he goes, "Hank,
not only is your boy here right, but I think we found ourselves a new bingo
caller for Sunday nights!"  
  
(He laughs as Ronon glares at him.)  
  
HARRIMAN: Bingo! "I-37! N-1! G-72! Bingo!" (He giggles.) Whoever said the
admiral didn't have a sense of humour?!  
  
(He stops giggling as he remembers something else.)  
  
HARRIMAN: Oh! Then there was this other time that General O'Neill and I, we
were ...  
  
(The doors to the Commissary open. Ronon looks up and leaps to his feet with a
look of desperate hope on his face.)  
  
DEX: Tell me you have something!  
  
(John comes over.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Devlin Medical Technologies.  
  
DEX: That means ...?  
  
SHEPPARD: You've got somebody to point your gun at.  
  
DEX (hurrying from the room): Sweet!  
  
(John picks up a French fry from Walter's plate and follows Ronon out. Walter
watches them go, then laughs fondly at his memories.)  
  
  
WALLACE'S OFFICE. Wallace pours a glass of champagne. Rodney looks at him
anxiously.  
  
McKAY: What are you gonna do with us?  
  
WALLACE: Hey, we're celebrating here.  
  
McKAY (indicating Jeanie): She's still got nanites inside her and we are both
still hostages, so you'll excuse me if I skip the champagne.  
  
WALLACE: I'm a man of my word. I'm gonna let you go.  
  
McKAY: What, just like that?  
  
WALLACE: Just like that.  
  
(He goes to a side desk to collect another glass.)  
  
JEANIE: But you'll be arrested.  
  
McKAY (through his teeth to her): Not helping!  
  
WALLACE (coming back with the glass and filling it): I know. I've known I was
going to prison from the moment I decided to kidnap you. I don't care. My
daughter's gonna live – that's all that matters.  
  
(Jeanie smiles at him.)  
  
WALLACE (to Rodney): I can't expect you to understand.  
  
McKAY: Well, you're right. I don't.  
  
WALLACE (offering glasses to each of them): We've done a great thing here
today, and not just for my daughter. Hell, we might have just cured cancer
altogether. So, please, a toast.  
  
(Rodney and Jeanie take their glasses. Wallace picks up the third glass and
raises it.)  
  
WALLACE: To the future.  
  
(Jeanie lifts her glass but before she can clink it against Wallace's, the
door opens and the guard comes in.)  
  
GUARD: Sir? We have a problem.  
  
  
SHARON'S ROOM. Sharon is lying flat on her back on the bed and her heart
monitor is emitting a single tone. A nurse is pumping air into her as the
doctor holds defibrillator paddles.  
  
DOCTOR: Clear.  
  
(He shocks her. The tone remains unchanged.)  
  
DOCTOR: Nothing. Going again.  
  
(Wallace walks in, followed by Rodney and Jeanie. They stop at the doorway.)  
  
DOCTOR: Charging. Clear.  
  
(He shocks Sharon again. The single tone continues. The doctor takes Sharon's
wrist to check for a pulse.)  
  
DOCTOR (to the nurse): Turn it off.  
  
(The nurse turns off the monitor. His face full of anguish, Wallace walks over
to the bed.)  
  
DOCTOR: I'm so sorry.  
  
WALLACE: She was fine. I don't understand.  
  
DOCTOR: Her heart just stopped. We couldn't get it pumping again. I'm not sure
what happened.  
  
(Wallace pushes him aside gently and walks to his daughter's bedside. He gazes
down at her, his eyes filling with tears. Jeanie watches, her face
sympathetic. Rodney walks closer to her, his eyes wide with the realisation of
what could happen to her next.)  
  
McKAY: We need to get out of here.  
  
JEANIE: I know.  
  
McKAY: Look, I need to get you back to the S.G.C. Your nanites are running the
same programme ...  
  
JEANIE: I know.  
  
McKAY: OK. I'm gonna see if I can distract the guard. I need you to go ...  
  
(Jeanie starts to walk towards Sharon's bed.)  
  
McKAY: Jeanie. Jeanie! What are you doing!  
  
(Jeanie walks over to Wallace, who has sat down and is holding his daughter's
hand against his cheek.)  
  
JEANIE: I'm so sorry. My brother and I need to leave. We need to get to a
bigger lab with more scientists. _Please_.  
  
(Wallace shakes his head, too full of loss to be really paying attention to
her.)  
  
WALLACE: I don't know what to do.  
  
JEANIE: I can't _imagine_ what you're going through right now, and I know
you're angry – I would be too – but if I go untreated ... Look, I have a
family, a husband, a daughter. _Please_. I need to get help and I can't do it
here.  
  
WALLACE (tearfully): I'm sorry.  
  
(Just then the heart monitor beeps and Sharon opens her eyes and gasps.
Startled, Jeanie steps back as the doctor hurries forward and takes Sharon's
wrist in his hand to check her pulse.)  
  
WALLACE: Sharon?!  
  
(Sharon gazes around, her eyes half-closed and uncomprehending. Wallace looks
at the doctor.)  
  
WALLACE: You said she was dead!  
  
DOCTOR: She was!  
  
(The heart monitor settles to a steady beep. Wallace gently puts his hand on
Sharon's head as she continues to gaze around blankly.)  
  
  
LAB. Rodney is working on the computer while Jeanie stands beside him.  
  
McKAY: The nanites are still active.  
  
JEANIE: No. Once they've beaten the cancer, they're supposed to shut
themselves down.  
  
McKAY: It's never been tested in a live subject and it's only worked
sporadically in simulations. (He looks up at Wallace.) Look, I _told_ you –
this programming is nowhere near ready to implement.  
  
WALLACE: Wait. You're saying the nanites brought her back to life?  
  
McKAY: It's the only viable explanation.  
  
WALLACE: Then why did she die in the first place? Shouldn't they have kept her
alive?  
  
JEANIE: That's a good point.  
  
McKAY: Whoa-whoa-whoa-wait. The doctor said her heart just stopped, right,
seemingly out of nowhere?  
  
WALLACE: Right.  
  
JEANIE: Does Sharon have any heart problems unrelated to the cancer?  
  
WALLACE: Yes, she has a mitral regurgitation problem – heart murmur.  
  
McKAY (to Jeanie): Whoa, you don't think ...  
  
JEANIE: We broadened the parameters. They weren't _just_ programmed to cure
the cancer.  
  
McKAY: Once they were done with the leukaemia, they moved onto the heart
murmur, and the easiest way to fix that ...  
  
WALLACE: ... is shut it down while they repaired it.  
  
JEANIE: That doesn't make any sense. Shutting down the heart and starving the
brain of oxygen would cause severe brain damage.  
  
McKAY: Damage they could technically fix.  
  
JEANIE: They could repair the tissue, yes, but the patient would lose their
memories, their language skills, any sense of self.  
  
McKAY: They don't care about that. Look, they were designed to fix the body of
all physical maladies. I mean, preserving a sense of self isn't one of their
directives.  
  
WALLACE: So she's gonna be stuck in this vegetative state?  
  
McKAY: Technically, her brain is perfectly healthy. It's like she's been re-
set to zero, so to speak.  
  
JEANIE (nervously): Meredith, what about me? I don't _have_ any cancer.
They'll look around and go straight for ...  
  
McKAY (horrified): ... your epilepsy.  
  
JEANIE: I don't _wanna_ be shut down for repairs.  
  
McKAY: OK, OK. The first thing we've gotta do is make sure ...  
  
(Just then a gun blast blows the lock out of the door. A soldier kicks in the
door and rushes in, followed by John, Ronon – who has taken the time to change
back into his normal attire – and several other soldiers. One of the soldiers
grabs Wallace and shoves him down to the ground.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Are you guys OK?  
  
JEANIE: How did you ...?  
  
McKAY: We need to get Jeanie to the S.G.C. immediately. Is the Daedalus still
in orbit?  
  
SHEPPARD: You're welcome! It was a daring rescue.  
  
McKAY: Yes-yes-yes, thank you, but we're nowhere near out of the woods yet. We
have to get to the S.G.C. _now_.  
  
(John activates his headset radio.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Daedalus, this is Sheppard. We need a lift.  
  
(As the soldier tethers Wallace's hands behind him, a transporter beam whisks
the others away.)  
  
  
S.G.C. LAB.  
  
McKAY: OK, I've put Jeanie in a medically induced coma, and I've broken her
legs.  
  
DEX: You what?!  
  
McKAY: Well, we need to slow down the nanites. Look, this could buy us ten
hours at least.  
  
SHEPPARD: You broke her legs? Couldn't you just give her a disease or
something?  
  
McKAY: She needed an immediate and severe trauma. Besides, if we shut them
down before she's properly healed, all she has is a few broken bones.  
  
SHEPPARD: Instead of a disease she'd have to fight alone.  
  
McKAY: Exactly. Now, I'm pretty sure we can't just keep doing this. I mean,
sooner or later the nanites are gonna abandon her broken bones and move to her
brain, so we need to move fast.  
  
BARRETT: Can't we just blast her with an electro-magnetic pulse?  
  
McKAY: No. These nanites were designed specifically to be immune to E.M. field
fluctuations.  
  
SHEPPARD: Wonderful(!)  
  
BARRETT: So we have a little over ten hours to come up with a programme that
shuts down the nanites.  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
SHEPPARD: So, what's the plan?  
  
McKAY: Well, as embarrassing as I find this to say, I need some help.  
  
  
GATEROOM. The Gate is open and Rodney and John are waiting at the foot of the
ramp.  
  
SHEPPARD: This is a bad idea.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well it's the only one I've got.  
  
(Two Atlantis marines back slowly out of the Gate, aiming Wraith stunner
pistols back into the event horizon. The S.G.C. troops in the Gateroom ready
their weapons. A moment later, Atlantis' captive Wraith comes through the
Gate. It is wearing the thick leather belt around its waist which chains its
wrists closely to the belt. It is also wearing shackles around its ankles. It
stumbles down the ramp, breathing heavily, and looks down at John and Rodney.)  
  
WRAITH: Why have you brought me here?  
  
  
LAB. Rodney and the Wraith, together with several guards, are inside.  
  
McKAY: Look, you understand the Replicator coding better than anyone. If we're
gonna do this quickly, then we need your help.  
  
(The Wraith looks around the room as if distracted. Rodney sighs.)  
  
McKAY: And why should you care? I mean, we're gonna kill you either way,
right? That's what you're thinking?  
  
(The Wraith still doesn't reply.)  
  
McKAY: OK, OK, so, um ... incentives. Uh, first off: we have no interest in
killing you. Of course, you've probably already figured that out by now; but
we can't let you go either because you know too much about Atlantis – unless
you could prove that you were trustworthy, and this would go a long way
towards proving that.  
  
(The Wraith grunts. It looks tired and its face is even more oily than usual.)  
  
McKAY: Right. Yeah, I'm pretty sure _I_ wouldn't buy that, either.  
  
(He laughs nervously, then walks a little closer to it.)  
  
McKAY: Do you have any relatives? Do the Wraith have brothers or sisters? I
don't know how it works. But with _us_, with _my_ people, those bonds mean a
lot. My sister's in trouble and it's pretty much all my fault. You could help
us. You could save her.  
  
(The Wraith yawns.)  
  
McKAY: Doesn't mean anything to you, does it? I suppose it wouldn't mean much
to me either if I was in your place. OK. OK. You and I both know that if we
can figure out how to shut down these Earth-made nanites, it would be a giant
step towards shutting down the Replicators. I know you lost your hive – I have
no idea how horrible that must have been for you. But knowing that they're
still out there – that you alone could do something about it – that's gotta be
driving you crazy. So don't do this for me. Don't ... don't do this for my
sister. Do this for yourself. Do this because you know you can and because you
know it'll help destroy the Replicators once and for all.  
  
(Finally the Wraith meets his gaze.)  
  
McKAY: What do you say?  
  
(The Wraith nods, grunting.)  
  
McKAY: Thank you.  
  
  
Shortly afterwards, two guards unstrap the cuffs around the Wraith's wrists,
then kneel down to release its ankle shackles. A montage of images follows.
Wraith text streams across a large computer screen. The Wraith points at part
of the text and it and Rodney discuss what it has seen. In the Infirmary, a
nurse checks on an unconscious Jeanie. In the lab, Rodney and the Wraith type
onto two separate computers. The Wraith looks at a screen behind it and then
turns around again, blinking and shaking its head as if exhausted. More time
passes. In the lab, a screen shows that a simulation is running.  
  
McKAY: All right, just a few bugs to code out but I think we're close.  
  
WRAITH: "We"?  
  
(Its voice is deep and pained and it is shivering slightly. Rodney doesn't
notice.)  
  
McKAY: Hey, I have been contributing. Now, if I could suggest a few targets
...  
  
(The Wraith groans, slumps out of its chair and falls to its knees.)  
  
McKAY: You OK?  
  
WRAITH (weakly): No.  
  
(It collapses to the floor.)  
  
  
OFFICE. John is sitting on the edge of a desk as Rodney stands in front of
him.  
  
SHEPPARD: What if he's faking? What if he's just milking it for a hot meal?  
  
McKAY: No, I believe him. He can't finish the coding without feeding. I
understand exactly what he's doing, but he's far more versed at implementing
it than I am. Maybe if I had a couple of weeks, but he's the only one that can
do it in a day.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't know what to say, but the N.I.D. is not gonna provide us
with a human for him to feed on.  
  
McKAY: I know. It needs to be me.  
  
(John's eyes widen.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
McKAY: I want him to feed on me.  
  
SHEPPARD (standing up): You wanna what?!  
  
McKAY: Let him feed off me – get his strength back, then he can finish the
coding and save Jeanie.  
  
SHEPPARD: Then what? Force him to give you your life back? He's not gonna do
that.  
  
McKAY: Sharon died half an hour ago.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't understand. What happened? I thought the nanites were ...  
  
McKAY: This time it wasn't a problem with the programming. It was a
manufacturing defect. In layman's terms, the nanites ran out of steam while
they were repairing her arteries. She bled out internally. There was nothing
we could do. (He stares at John in anguish.) I can't lose my sister, John. How
am I gonna explain it to her husband, to her kid?  
  
SHEPPARD: That Wraith'll kill you.  
  
McKAY: It's my choice to make.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, it's not. You're an invaluable member of my team and you report
directly to me.  
  
McKAY: Really? You wanna talk about chain of command right now?  
  
SHEPPARD: You are _not_ doing this.  
  
McKAY: She's here because of me. I can't fix the problem, but I can help the
guy who can. Look, this was not an easy decision to make.  
  
SHEPPARD (looking away): I can't.  
  
McKAY (near tears): Please.  
  
(John looks at him and the pleading desperation in his eyes.)  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly): I'm sorry.  
  
  
LATER. John is sitting at a table in a holding cell. Wallace is sitting on the
other side of the table, his face full of grief at the loss of his daughter.  
  
SHEPPARD: We're going over the data. We don't understand what happened. I'm
sorry.  
  
WALLACE: And Jeanie?  
  
SHEPPARD: She's not gonna make it. We brought in a, uh, specialist from the
Pegasus galaxy – part of an enemy race called the Wraith. Somehow McKay has
convinced him to create a programme to shut down the nanites in Jeanie's body.  
  
WALLACE: And?  
  
SHEPPARD: He was close, real close, but he hasn't fed in a few weeks so he
collapsed. He's too weak to finish the coding modifications.  
  
WALLACE: I don't understand. If it means saving her life, why not just feed
him?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, he feeds on ... humans – their life force.  
  
WALLACE (nodding): I see.  
  
SHEPPARD: A little hard to find volunteers.  
  
WALLACE: So Jeanie will ...  
  
SHEPPARD: She's gonna die, just like Sharon.  
  
WALLACE (anguished): I'm _so_ sorry.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'm sure you are.  
  
(He reaches into his pocket and takes out some photographs. He puts the first
one down on the table in front of Wallace. It's a picture of Kaleb holding
Madison in his arms, both of them smiling at the camera.)  
  
SHEPPARD: This is Kaleb, her husband ...  
  
(He drops another photo onto the desk. This one is of Madison sitting on some
steps with her head propped in her hands. She's grinning at the camera.)  
  
SHEPPARD: ... and Madison, her little daughter.  
  
(Wallace picks the photos up and looks at them, starting to cry.)  
  
WALLACE: I never meant for any of this to happen.  
  
SHEPPARD: I know you didn't. But it did. Now McKay's blaming himself, but I
know better. (He looks at Wallace.) _You_ know better.  
  
(Wallace looks back at him, his eyes full of tears, and sighs.)  
  
  
LATER. Rodney walks to the closed door of the lab. He swipes his keycard
through the reader but it beeps negatively at him. He swipes it again but gets
the same result.  
  
McKAY: Oh, come on!  
  
(A guard standing nearby walks over to him.)  
  
FULLER: Can I help you, sir?  
  
McKAY (nervously): Uh, no. No problem.  
  
FULLER (holding out his hand for the card): May I see that, sir?  
  
McKAY: Uh, no, you may not.  
  
FULLER: Sir, the card, please.  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(Reluctantly, he hands the card over. Fuller looks at it.)  
  
FULLER: You're not Doctor Lee, sir.  
  
McKAY: Oh, is that Lee's card? You know, we were just at the gym and, uh, must
have swapped pants, so, uh, would you just open the door for me?  
  
FULLER: Not without a card, sir.  
  
McKAY: Look, I am Doctor Rodney McKay. This is my lab. Would you please open
the door?  
  
FULLER: I can't do that, sir.  
  
McKAY (angrily): This is a matter of life and death. Open the door!  
  
(Fuller opens his mouth to reply but just then the door slides open. Rodney
looks inside. John is standing inside next to the Wraith which is back on its
feet.)  
  
McKAY: Sheppard?  
  
SHEPPARD (to Fuller): Let him in.  
  
(As Fuller steps aside and Rodney walks into the lab, the sound of a zipper
being pulled closed can be heard. [Careful there, people ...] Rodney looks
around and sees that two medics have just zipped a bodybag closed. As the
Wraith types on its computer, Rodney stares in horror as the medics wheel the
bodybag out of the room.)  
  
McKAY: What?!  
  
SHEPPARD: I was showing Wallace the labs. The Wraith got the upper hand.
That's what the report's gonna say.  
  
McKAY (staring at him in shock): You ...  
  
SHEPPARD: Come on. You've got work to do.  
  
WRAITH: No, he does not. I've completed the reprogramming.  
  
SHEPPARD: That was quick. Well, get it uploaded.  
  
(Rodney pulls himself together and goes over to help the Wraith.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Some time later, Jeanie wakes up. Rodney is sitting at her bedside.  
  
McKAY: Jeanie?  
  
JEANIE: Mer.  
  
McKAY: It's OK, it's OK.  
  
JEANIE: Man, medical comas are weird.  
  
McKAY: Yeah. You're not the first to mention it.  
  
JEANIE: Did you ...?  
  
McKAY: Yes.  
  
JEANIE: So, I'm ...?  
  
McKAY: You are absolutely fine. I mean, aside from a few inert nanites in you.  
  
JEANIE: Thanks, Mer.  
  
(She pulls herself up into a sitting position.)  
  
McKAY: I'm really sorry about all this.  
  
JEANIE: Oh, I am gonna hold this over your head for ... (she pauses for a
moment as she thinks about it) ... forever.  
  
McKAY: Oh, that's totally fair.  
  
(Jeanie starts to get out of bed.)  
  
JEANIE: Like, you're gonna eat a _lot_ of vegetarian food ... and not complain
about it.  
  
McKAY (picking up a pair of slippers and putting them on the floor near her
feet): Sure, sure.  
  
JEANIE: And you're gonna read Madison three stories instead of her usual two.  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(As Jeanie slowly gets to her feet, Rodney looks around and fetches her a
robe.)  
  
JEANIE: You're gonna buy me a car.  
  
McKAY: Let's not get out of control here.  
  
JEANIE: You almost got me killed. That's at least a car – a nice one. A
hybrid.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, we'll talk about it on the way home.  
  
JEANIE: Oh, home! That sounds great.  
  
(She looks at him for a moment, then wraps her arms around him and hugs him.)  
  
JEANIE: I love you.  
  
McKAY (smiling): I know.  
  
(They break the hug. Jeanie looks at him as if to say, "Well?")  
  
McKAY (a little embarrassed): I love you too.  
  
(Jeanie sighs as he hands her the robe, but smiles fondly at him as she puts
the robe on.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS. In his quarters, John is lying on top of his bed reading a magazine.
The door opens and Rodney comes in.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hey!  
  
McKAY: Hey.  
  
SHEPPARD: Look who's back. How was the family?  
  
McKAY (sitting down on a nearby chair): Uh, great. Bought ‘em a Prius.  
  
SHEPPARD: Guilt.  
  
McKAY: Yeah. (He looks at John awkwardly.) Listen, I can't believe what you
did.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't really wanna talk about it.  
  
McKAY: You talked Wallace into sacrificing himself.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, I didn't.  
  
McKAY: Well, then, how did he ...?  
  
SHEPPARD: I ... (He shuts the magazine and gazes into the distance for a
moment.) I presented a situation. He volunteered.  
  
McKAY: Still, you talked a man into killing himself.  
  
(John looks at him, his face haunted.)  
  
SHEPPARD: He wanted to make things right. I merely, uh ...  
  
(He trails off, still struggling with the guilt. Rodney, realising this, helps
him out.)  
  
McKAY: ... presented the situation.  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly): Yeah.  
  
McKAY: Thanks.  
  
(After a moment, he stands up and sighs, gesturing towards the door.)  
  
McKAY: Wanna get something to eat?  
  
SHEPPARD: Sure.  
  
(He gets off the bed and he and Rodney leave the room.)  
  
McKAY: Say, you and I are about even when it comes to looks, right?  
  
SHEPPARD: Who's been lying to you?  
  
McKAY: No, I'm serious.  
  
SHEPPARD: I am too. Who's been lying to you?

