ATLANTIS. CONTROL ROOM. Ronon Dex is sitting near the bottom of the stairs
leading to the Jumper Bay. John Sheppard, geared up for an off-world mission,
is pacing nearby.  
  
DEX: Don't worry – we're ahead of schedule.  
  
SHEPPARD: I know.  
  
DEX: All the settlements we've been assigned have been evacuated.  
  
SHEPPARD: I know, I know. It's just that most of the planets that are in the
Replicators' path are people that we've had almost no contact with, so I need
you and Teyla out there as much as possible.  
  
DEX: Yeah, well, I think it might be the ‘flu. She's been looking a little
green lately.  
  
(Just then nearby doors open and Teyla Emmagan walks in, geared up. She has
heard what Ronon said.)  
  
TEYLA: I am fine. Where are we going to now?  
  
DEX: M9R-373.  
  
(Teyla sighs as Ronon stands up and the three of them walk across the room.)  
  
TEYLA: The Sions. Should be interesting(!)  
  
SHEPPARD: Look, I'm sorry we're having to go out so much. I know you don't
feel so hot, but you're the one with all the contacts out there, so ...  
  
TEYLA: It's all right. I'm feeling much better now.  
  
(As the team reaches the top of the stairs down to the Gateroom, the Stargate
begins to dial in. Chuck the technician reports.)  
  
CHUCK: Offworld activation.  
  
(John and the others stop and watch as a marine walks through the Gate,
followed by a small boy.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Must be Lieutenant Kemp's team.  
  
(More refugees follow the boy out of the Gate. Some scientists go over to
greet them.)  
  
CHUCK: Receiving video transmission. Coming in now, Colonel.  
  
(John and the others go back into the Control Room and walk over to a
wallscreen. Lieutenant Kemp appears on the screen. He is squatting down to a
M.A.L.P. and looking into its camera.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Lieutenant. Looks like things are going well.  
  
KEMP: Most of the settlement's on their way through, but a good number of them
have decided to stay behind. I'm not sure they believe us, sir. I'm requesting
Teyla come back and try to talk some sense into the stragglers, ‘cause I'm not
gettin' anywhere with ‘em.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hell. I don't think we can do that. The Replicator ship's gonna be
there within a half hour.  
  
KEMP: Well, I don't know what to do. They ...  
  
(He trails off and looks up as he hears the sound of a ship above him. He
calls out a warning to his men.)  
  
KEMP: Incoming!  
  
(A missile strikes nearby. He ducks down as it explodes, then raises up again
and yells into the camera.)  
  
KEMP: Too late! They're already here!  
  
SHEPPARD: Lieutenant, get your men through the Gate!  
  
KEMP: I can't! There's no way through ...  
  
(The transmission is cut off and the Gate closes.)  
  
CHUCK: We lost transmission.  
  
SHEPPARD: Dial ‘em back.  
  
(Chuck punches buttons on his console but the Gate doesn't respond.)  
  
CHUCK: Can't get a lock.  
  
SHEPPARD: They must have taken out the Gate.  
  
DEX: How many people were left on that settlement?  
  
TEYLA: Just under two thousand.  
  
  
LATER. Two hyperspace windows open above New Lantea and Apollo and Daedalus
fly out of them and take up orbit around the planet. In the Control Room of
Atlantis, Samantha Carter and Rodney McKay are waiting with John.  
  
McKAY: Both ships at the same time. This is a first.  
  
CARTER: Well, it's the first time we've _needed_ them.  
  
(John and Rodney turn and look at her pointedly. She looks round and sees
their expressions.)  
  
CARTER (embarrassed): Well, since _I've_ been here.  
  
(Two Asgard transporter beams appear and deposit Colonels Steven Caldwell and
Abe Ellis on the balcony. They nod to each other.)  
  
CALDWELL: Colonel.  
  
ELLIS: Colonel.  
  
(They turn to Sam.)  
  
CALDWELL: Colonel.  
  
CARTER: Colonels.  
  
ELLIS (to John): Colonel.  
  
SHEPPARD: Colonels.  
  
McKAY (grimacing): What, seriously?!  
  
CARTER (to Caldwell): Good flight?  
  
CALDWELL: _Long_ flight.  
  
SHEPPARD: We'll make it worth your while.  
  
ELLIS: That's what I hear. You have a way of tracking the Replicator ships?  
  
CARTER: We do.  
  
CALDWELL: That'll make finding and destroying them a lot easier.  
  
CARTER: Why don't you come into my office? We'll get you briefed.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. As Replicator coding streams up a wallscreen, Rodney is in
full flow to his assembled audience.  
  
McKAY: It is this recent discovery of the essential duality of this particular
stem of the nano sub-code that has opened up a whole new world of
possibilities when it comes to the expedient and permanent deactivation of the
inter-nanite bonds.  
  
(John and Caldwell are sitting in chairs, both looking bored to tears.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney ...  
  
McKAY: Yeah, I'll let you know when I'm ready to take questions. Thank you.  
  
(Ellis is standing nearby with Sam.)  
  
ELLIS (to Rodney): Have you created an anti-Replicator weapon or not?  
  
McKAY: If you just let me continue, I think you'd have a better understanding
of the complexity that I am ...  
  
ELLIS (interrupting): Yes or no, Doctor?  
  
(Rodney hesitates.)  
  
McKAY: Well ... no.  
  
(He opens his mouth to start speaking again but Sam quickly clears her throat
and turns to Ellis.)  
  
CARTER: All right, we move on to Plan B.  
  
McKAY: What, just like that?  
  
CARTER: The Replicators are destroying every human colony they can find in an
attempt to wipe out the Wraiths' food supply. We can't wait. We have to act
now.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, but Plan B – it's not a good plan.  
  
ELLIS: Oh, no?  
  
McKAY: Sure, the Apollo and the Daedalus have been retrofitted with the new
Asgard plasma beam weapon which – given – are very, very powerful, but they
still can't destroy the Replicators.  
  
CALDWELL: Well, we don't have to destroy _them_; we just have to destroy their
ships. I mean, from what I understand, once they're exposed to the harsh
environment of space, they'll essentially be neutralised.  
  
McKAY: Well, _essentially_ neutralised and neutralised are two very different
things.  
  
SHEPPARD: Back when we blasted Niam into space, he froze solid. We didn't have
a problem ‘til _we_ warmed him up.  
  
McKAY: That's what I'm saying. Look, your way leaves Replicator cells
inactive, just waiting around for someone to reactivate them. _My_ way shuts
them down for good.  
  
ELLIS: But _our_ way is actually operational. You know, come to think of it,
what exactly _is_ your way? From what _I_ understand, you haven't even gotten
your programming done yet, let alone a delivery method.  
  
McKAY: Well, you didn't let me finish my presentation ...  
  
ELLIS (sarcastically): I think I got the gist of it.  
  
McKAY (angrily): Really?  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney.  
  
McKAY: No-no, I'm just wondering when the colonel here became a math and
physics expert.  
  
ELLIS: Doctor, you came into this meeting knowing that you had nothing, but
instead of just saying that like a man, you thought that you'd dazzle us with
a lot of fancy talk and think that we were too dumb to notice.  
  
McKAY: Oh, so now you're questioning my manhood?!  
  
CARTER (gesturing angrily at both men): All right, that is enough!  
  
McKAY: No! He just told ...  
  
SHEPPARD (more sternly than before): Rodney.  
  
(Rodney looks at him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Move on.  
  
(Rodney pauses for a second while he regroups, then turns to everyone.)  
  
McKAY: Look, I think we've got this tracking system down. We can peg where
they're gonna be within a thirty minute window, and given current data we've
got at least twelve hours before any of their ships are even close to an
inhabited planet. (He looks at Sam.) Just give me and the Wraith, like, ten
hours to get this shut-down programme working.  
  
(Sam can't help but look a little exasperated at the amount of time he is
requesting.)  
  
McKAY: If I don't, then you can just feel free to go ahead and open up on ‘em
with your beam weapons.  
  
CARTER: All right, you have ten hours. Go.  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(He turns off the screen with a remote control and leaves the room. Ellis
sighs.)  
  
ELLIS: I don't understand how you guys put up with ...  
  
(Sam interrupts him as she walks around to glare into his face.)  
  
CARTER: If you _ever_ talk like that to someone under my command again, you
will not be welcome on this base, Colonel. Is that clear?  
  
(Ellis nods.)  
  
ELLIS: Yes, it is.  
  
CARTER: Good. (She looks round to include John and Caldwell.) We're done here.
Thank you.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. Rodney is with the Wraith and a couple of guards.  
  
WRAITH: Why would you lie to them?  
  
McKAY: I didn't lie to them.  
  
WRAITH: It is most improbable that we complete our task within ten hours.  
  
McKAY: That is quitter talk. (He smiles at the Wraith.) Look, you don't know
me. This is when I'm at my best. This is when I _shine_: impossible deadlines.
Did I ever tell you about the time I once got a damaged Ancient hyperdrive
system online _moments_ before me and my crew were incinerated by a
supervolcano?  
  
(The Wraith sighs. It has obviously heard the story several times.)  
  
WRAITH: Yes – you have.  
  
McKAY: Well, there you go. See? I work best under pressure.  
  
(He turns away to a console. The Wraith steps closer to his back.)  
  
WRAITH: Then perhaps I should threaten to feed on you if you do not complete
the coding in time.  
  
(The guards raise their Wraith stunner pistols and aim them at it. Rodney
turns and holds out his hands to the men.)  
  
McKAY: Easy, easy. He's just kidding. (He looks at the Wraith.) Just tell ‘em
you were joking.  
  
(The Wraith stares at him silently, tilting its head. Rodney looks nervous.)  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(He moves around to the other side of the table.)  
  
McKAY: I'll work in this area.  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. The Wraith and Rodney are working at separate consoles. John comes
in.  
  
SHEPPARD: Time's up.  
  
McKAY: What, so soon?  
  
(He looks at his watch.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I guess that means you're not ready.  
  
McKAY: Well, no, I'm not.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we're going with Plan B. Wanna go for a ride?  
  
(Rodney sighs.)  
  
McKAY: No. I'll stay here. It still needs to get done. Good luck.  
  
(John leaves as Rodney gets back to work.)  
  
  
SPACE. Daedalus and Apollo jump out of hyperspace. John is sitting in the
pilot's seat to the left of Ellis on board Apollo.  
  
ELLIS: Daedalus, this is the Apollo. Our scans are clear – we don't have any
other contacts. Can you confirm?  
  
CALDWELL: Copy that. We have the same reading.  
  
(He turns to Sam who is sitting to his right in the weapons officer's seat.)  
  
CALDWELL: Colonel, how long before our guest arrives?  
  
CARTER: Should be any second now.  
  
CALDWELL: Won't _they_ be surprised?! (Into radio) We're going weapons hot,
Apollo.  
  
ELLIS: Copy that. We have done the same.  
  
(On Ellis' right, his weapons officer, Lieutenant Marks, reports.)  
  
MARKS: I'm detecting a hyperspace window opening.  
  
ELLIS: Stand by to fire forward beam weapons.  
  
(Ahead of the ships, a hyperspace window opens and an Aurora-style Replicator
ship flies out.)  
  
CALDWELL: Fire!  
  
(The two ships begin to fire repeated bursts from their Asgard plasma beam
weapons at the Replicator ship. It crumples under the onslaught and within a
few seconds disintegrates and then explodes.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Contact has been neutralised.  
  
CALDWELL (to Sam): I wish we'd had these a few years ago.  
  
CARTER: Well, the first attack is easy. They didn't know we were coming. The
Replicators have proven very effective in changing strategies when faced with
failure.  
  
CALDWELL: Still, we took that ship down without breaking a sweat.  
  
CARTER: Right! One down, thirty-seven to go.  
  
  
ATLANTIS. ONE WEEK LATER. Caldwell exits a transporter to find John waiting
for him.  
  
SHEPPARD: Welcome back, sir.  
  
CALDWELL: I was in the neighbourhood, thought I'd stop by and re-supply.  
  
SHEPPARD: How's it going out there?  
  
CALDWELL: Splitting us up was a good call. The Daedalus has downed another
three ships.  
  
SHEPPARD: Ellis got another two – that brings us to seven. That's not bad at
all.  
  
CALDWELL: I'll need about an hour to get what we need, then we'll get back out
there.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, there's been a little change of plans.  
  
CALDWELL: Really?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah.  
  
  
John and Caldwell have joined Sam and Rodney in her office. Ellis is on a
video screen.  
  
ELLIS: They're falling back?  
  
CARTER: Safety in numbers.  
  
McKAY: Evidently they haven't figured out how we're tracking them and ...  
  
SHEPPARD (interrupting): _Or_ they haven't figured out how to stop us.  
  
McKAY: Either way, they wanna stop losing ships.  
  
CALDWELL: So they're all headed back to the Replicator homeworld?  
  
CARTER: That's right.  
  
ELLIS: Well, that's good. I mean, they're finally all in one place. We can
wipe them all out at once.  
  
CARTER: Ideally, yes, but our two ships versus an entire Replicator fleet ...  
  
SHEPPARD: Not to mention the drones that'll be firing from the surface.  
  
CARTER: The new weapons we have are very effective but they are _no_ match for
that kind of fire power.  
  
ELLIS: Well, sounds like the perfect time to finally use that killer programme
you've been working on, Doctor.  
  
(Rodney's eyes widen as he tries not to look panicked.)  
  
McKAY: Yeah(!)  
  
ELLIS: Remember when you said all you needed was ten hours to finish it?  
  
McKAY: ... Vaguely.  
  
ELLIS: Well, it's been ten hours ... and a week. Are you finished?  
  
McKAY (unconvincingly): Oh, I'm just dotting some i's, crossing some t's ...  
  
CARTER: Look, whatever our plan is, we need to act quickly. Our current intel
suggests that they're putting all their resources into building new ships. I
figure we have less than a week before they head back out into the galaxy, and
in much greater numbers.  
  
CALDWELL: When they start travelling in packs, our kill rate's gonna drop
drastically.  
  
CARTER: We can't let that happen. We need to take them out while they're all
in one place, and we need to do it quickly.  
  
McKAY: Mmm.  
  
(Sam turns and looks at him. John does likewise, and so does Caldwell. Ellis
looks at him from the screen. Rodney finally gets the message.)  
  
McKAY: Hey, I should, um, just get back to my lab.  
  
(He leaves the room.)  
  
  
LATER. Rodney and the Wraith watch as a screen shows the message "SIMULATION
RUNNING." A line runs across the screen showing the progress of the
simulation. It reaches the end, then the message "FAILED" comes up. Rodney
groans.  
  
McKAY: Look, I have to tell them. I have to tell them we don't have anything.  
  
WRAITH: This is most troubling.  
  
McKAY: Ellis is gonna _love_ this. I don't get it. We tried reconfiguring your
stand-down code; we tried programming the nanites to turn themselves off.
Something should've worked.  
  
WRAITH: They are a very complex and ingenious design.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, I thought I was ingeniouser.  
  
(The Wraith turns to him and opens its mouth but Rodney speaks first.)  
  
McKAY: Yes, I know it's not a word, Mr Helpful.  
  
(The Wraith sighs and they both turn back to look at the screen.)  
  
McKAY: All right, look, maybe we can figure out some way to use the Anti-
Replicator Guns somehow.  
  
WRAITH: From what you have told me, they have almost certainly become immune
to it.  
  
McKAY: And even if they haven't, we still have to get them all in one place.  
  
(He lifts his head as he starts having a lightbulb moment.)  
  
WRAITH: What is it?  
  
(Rodney spins around on his chair, his eyes wide, and stares off into the
distance.)  
  
McKAY: I think I got my first good idea in three weeks.  
  
(He stands up and heads out of the lab. The Wraith watches him go.)  
  
WRAITH: Hmm!  
  
  
SAM'S OFFICE. Sam is sitting at her desk and John is sitting on the edge of it
as Rodney talks to them.  
  
McKAY: Our old anti-Replicator technology relied on disrupting the bonds
between each individual nanite cell. They just collapsed in a pile of dust,
right?  
  
SHEPPARD (sarcastically): We're familiar with the technology, yes.  
  
McKAY: Right. Well, the thinking was always to continue down that line: to
break the bonds, to turn them off, sever their connections to one another,
because dust we can deal with, right?  
  
CARTER (impatiently): Rodney.  
  
McKAY: We do the opposite. Instead of severing their connections, we
significantly dial up their attraction to one another. We turn each cell into
an incredibly powerful nanite magnet. You know, one cell attracts another
cell, those two attract two more, and as more and more nanite cells bond to
the core group, they become stronger and stronger and stronger – to the point
where every Replicator cell on the planet, in orbit, all of them, are massed
in this, in this, in this giant super-dense blob.  
  
(He grins at the other two. They stare back at him in disbelief.)  
  
SHEPPARD: A "super-dense blob" – that's your great idea?  
  
McKAY: It _is_, yes, actually.  
  
SHEPPARD: What do we do with the blob, then? Aren't we in danger of creating
some Godzilla-sized super-Replicator?  
  
McKAY: No – at least, not at first. Look, this is not their normal form of
bonding. I mean, it'll take them some time to adapt, to figure out how to
function within the new parameters.  
  
CARTER: How _much_ time?  
  
McKAY: Well, I mean, I hate to speculate.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, since when?!  
  
McKAY: Look, it doesn't matter anyways, because long before that happens,
they're gonna fuse together so tightly, they will be rendered essentially
inert. Remember, this bond is occurring on a sub-space level.  
  
(Finally Sam gets it and stands up to walk closer to him.)  
  
CARTER: Which helps them get past the normal repulsive force between nuclei
...  
  
McKAY: ... to the point where their electrons are fusing with their protons
and once _that_ starts happening, they're toast.  
  
CARTER: Yeah, but you're talking about neutron star levels of density.  
  
(Grinning excitedly, Rodney points both index fingers at her.)  
  
McKAY: Precisely.  
  
(Sam pauses for a moment to take it in.)  
  
CARTER: Wow. (She turns to John.) It sounds crazy, but this could work.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, how do we make it work, then? Just upload a new command into
their base code?  
  
(Rodney, still grinning, points out of the office.)  
  
McKAY: I have a better idea.  
  
(He leads them out and takes them to a lab where there is a large Ancient
table in the middle of the room. He gestures to it triumphantly.)  
  
McKAY: Ta-da!  
  
SHEPPARD: What's this?  
  
McKAY: This – this has been in storage since we found it a while ago. The
Ancients used it as part of their research into the creation of human-form
Replicators.  
  
CARTER: What are you suggesting?  
  
(Rodney gestures to the table again.)  
  
McKAY: We have the technology. We have the understanding of nanite coding; I
mean, we have the Ancients' blueprints, for crying out loud.  
  
SHEPPARD: You wanna make your own Replicator.  
  
McKAY: Well, not a whole one – just, just a block of nanite cells, say, you
know ... (he draws a square in the air about two feet square) ... yay big.
Look, just enough to get the ball rolling.  
  
CARTER (shaking her head): I don't know, Rodney.  
  
McKAY: I'm not talking about creating anything with normal Replicator
abilities – just a group of nanite cells that can serve as a platform for us
to upload the new bonding programme. We take it to the Replicator homeworld,
we switch it on, we beam it into a populated area and we sit back and watch.
It couldn't be easier.  
  
(John and Sam frown, not totally convinced it'll be that easy. Rodney
hesitates for a moment.)  
  
McKAY: There is the _one_ problem.  
  
SHEPPARD: Only one?  
  
(Sam smiles.)  
  
McKAY: The Replicators on the planet will be affected fairly quickly but
there'll be a definite delay until there's enough mass to attract the nanite
cells in orbit.  
  
SHEPPARD: So the ships'll have plenty of time to escape.  
  
McKAY: Unless we disable or destroy them.  
  
CARTER: They have thirty ships. We have two.  
  
McKAY: Well, if we don't disable them, they're just gonna fly away, lay low
and replicate a new army.  
  
CARTER: Thirty ships versus two. It can't be done.  
  
(Rodney looks defeated. John, however, is having an idea.)  
  
SHEPPARD: We _might_ be able to get more ships.  
  
  
BRIG. Sam, John and Rodney are in the cell with the Wraith and have explained
their plan to it.  
  
WRAITH: Depending on what has happened since I've been in captivity here, I
could easily bring another twelve ships to the battle.  
  
SHEPPARD: Twelve ships willing to fight shoulder to shoulder?  
  
WRAITH: For a chance to destroy the Replicators once and for all? Of course.  
  
SHEPPARD (to Sam): This brings the odds down two to one.  
  
WRAITH: An alliance like this must be negotiated. I will need to personally
convince them that this is the proper course of action.  
  
(The humans look unhappy about that. The Wraith grins.)  
  
  
LATER. John, Ronon and Teyla, geared up for offworld travel, walk along a
corridor. Two guards carrying Wraith stunner pistols follow, and they are
followed by the Wraith wearing the belt which shackles its wrists close to its
waist. Two more guards with stunner pistols follow it. They go to the Jumper
Bay where John, Ronon and Teyla enter a Puddle Jumper followed by the Wraith.
Ronon grabs the Wraith's arm and hustles it to the front cockpit.  
  
DEX: Sit down.  
  
(He shoves it into the seat behind the pilot's chair and sits next to it,
holding his blaster on it. As Teyla takes the co-pilot's seat, John walks to
the pilot's chair but turns to the Wraith.)  
  
SHEPPARD: First sign you cross us ...  
  
WRAITH: ... I die. I know.  
  
  
WORMHOLE TRAVEL.  
  
  
The Jumper exits a space Gate and its engine pods deploy. As it moves forward,
we see that it is flying into the midst of a fleet of Wraith hiveships.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, this is different.  
  
(The console bleeps.)  
  
TEYLA: Receiving transmission.  
  
(The heads-up display appears on the windscreen.)  
  
TEYLA: Docking instructions.  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, let's get this over with.  
  
(The Jumper heads into one of the hiveships and lands. As its engines shut
down, John turns to the Wraith.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Now what?  
  
(Someone bangs three times on the outside of the door.)  
  
WRAITH: You open the door?  
  
(John and Ronon exchange a glance, then John stands up and starts to walk
towards the rear of the ship. The Wraith stands and indicates its shackles.)  
  
WRAITH: Perhaps we should remove these. I think it sends the wrong message,
don't you?  
  
(Ronon looks at John.)  
  
DEX: This is a mistake.  
  
SHEPPARD: We need his help.  
  
(He walks back to the Wraith and he and Ronon start to untie its wrists.)  
  
DEX (to John): I've got a bad feeling about this.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we're here. Let's see it through.  
  
(They undo the belt around the Wraith's waist and drop it to the floor. They
all walk to the rear door, Ronon pressing his blaster against the Wraith's
back, and John hits the button to open the door. Four Wraith guards are
waiting outside with stunner rifles aimed at them. John holds up a hand
placatingly, but Ronon shoves the Wraith to the side so that he can aim his
blaster at the guards.)  
  
SHEPPARD (to the guards): Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa, take it easy.  
  
(The guards open fire while the Wraith ducks out of the way to give them clear
aim at all three humans. John and Teyla drop immediately but Ronon tries to
struggle up. The guards fire several more shots into him until he is
unconscious. As the guards lower their rifles, the Wraith looks down at the
humans in satisfaction.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS. In the lab, the Ancient table now has a silver puddle on top of it.
Rodney is standing on one side of the table while Radek Zelenka stands on the
other side.  
  
McKAY: All right. Basic nanite material has been formed. Let's see if we can
get them to interact.  
  
(He picks up a small device and takes it around to Radek's side of the table
while Radek smiles down at the puddle in admiration.)  
  
ZELENKA: I must say, Rodney, this is quite an ingenious idea.  
  
McKAY (smugly): Were you expecting anything less?  
  
ZELENKA: Well ... (He hesitates.)  
  
McKAY: Well what?  
  
ZELENKA: Well, you _have_ been in a bit of a rut lately.  
  
McKAY (indignantly): I have _not_!  
  
ZELENKA: OK, well, like a dry spot, maybe.  
  
McKAY: _That_ is not true.  
  
ZELENKA: OK.  
  
McKAY: It is _not_!  
  
ZELENKA: OK! OK. Now, are we certain that these nanites will not go beyond
simple cohesion?  
  
McKAY: Of course. I've disabled most of the normal protocols. It won't be able
to do anything beyond form a simple block. All right, here we go.  
  
(He types on the device and the puddle pulls together and forms into a block
about six inches square.)  
  
ZELENKA: It worked! You did it, Rodney!  
  
McKAY: Naturally.  
  
ZELENKA: McKay's back!  
  
McKAY: Will you _stop_ that?! I was never gone!  
  
(His device beeps. He looks at it.)  
  
McKAY: Whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa-whoa. Wait a minute. (He types.) We've got a
problem. The cells aren't communicating properly.  
  
(The block collapses back into a puddle. The men both sigh.)  
  
McKAY: This could be tougher than I thought.  
  
(Radek raises a finger.)  
  
McKAY: And I _don't_ wanna hear you say anything.  
  
(Radek lowers his finger again as Rodney goes back to the table.)  
  
  
PUDDLE JUMPER. Teyla, Ronon and John are lying unconscious in the back of the
Jumper. The Wraith reaches down and shakes John awake. Grimacing, he opens his
eyes and drowsily looks up at it, then his eyes widen and he struggles to push
himself up into a sitting position.  
  
WRAITH: Be calm.  
  
(It offers him his pistol.)  
  
WRAITH: Here.  
  
(John snatches the pistol from it.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What the hell's goin' on?  
  
WRAITH: Apparently my fellow Wraith wanted to speak to me without you being
around.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, they might have just politely asked us to stay in the Jumper.  
  
WRAITH: Come now, you would never have let me leave your sight.  
  
SHEPPARD (sarcastically): Well, we'll never know now, will we?  
  
(The Wraith walks a couple of paces away, then turns to face him again.)  
  
WRAITH: We have a deal. Seven hives will join us in the fight.  
  
SHEPPARD: Seven? You said twelve.  
  
WRAITH: Not all of them were convinced that the mission was achievable, plus
many of our ships are without Queens. We'd be unable to create new soldiers
should they fall. If you prefer none ...  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, seven.  
  
(The Wraith bows slightly to him. John looks at Ronon.)  
  
SHEPPARD: How'd I wake up before Ronon?  
  
WRAITH: We had to stun him several times. I thought it would be best that you
were awake before he was.  
  
SHEPPARD: Probably a good idea.  
  
(He looks up and sees stars through the windshield rather than the interior of
a hiveship.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Are we in space?  
  
(He gets to his feet.)  
  
WRAITH: The hives have already left. They jettisoned your ship before they
jumped into hyperspace.  
  
SHEPPARD: Anything else happen while we were unconscious that I should know
about?  
  
WRAITH: I must return to Atlantis to help Doctor McKay complete our plan.  
  
(John looks at it for a moment, then uncocks his pistol and puts it away.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Help me to wake ‘em up and we'll get out of here.  
  
  
ATLANTIS.  
  
McKAY: All right. Lookin' good.  
  
(In the lab, the puddle has formed back into a block but it is surrounded by a
glow.)  
  
ZELENKA: Rodney, it's being held together by a forcefield.  
  
McKAY: I know. I just wanna give the cells time to establish their own
internal cohesion. Now, we drop the field ... (he types on his device and the
forcefield disappears) ... and it should hold together.  
  
(The block stays in place. Rodney smiles.)  
  
McKAY: Not bad. Not bad. Structure's intact, bonds are holding.  
  
(He laughs and looks at Radek, who smiles back, but then the device beeps and
the block drops back into a puddle. Rodney sighs.)  
  
McKAY: Dammit!  
  
ZELENKA: Mmm. It's no use, Rodney. You have disabled too many of the cells'
basic protocols. It was never designed to work this way.  
  
McKAY: In that case, there's only one thing we can do.  
  
(He starts to type on his device. Just then, Chuck's voice comes over their
radio headsets.)  
  
CHUCK: Doctor Zelenka?  
  
ZELENKA (activating his headset): Yes?  
  
CHUCK: They need to see you right away in Section seven. We're having some
power problems in the Infirmary.  
  
(Radek sighs and looks at Rodney.)  
  
ZELENKA: I should ... This won't take long. Is it all right if I ...?  
  
McKAY: Just go, go!  
  
(Radek starts to leave the room.)  
  
McKAY (to his departing back): You're only holding me back anyway.  
  
(He types on the device again, then looks at the puddle thoughtfully.)  
  
  
SPACE. The Puddle Jumper is heading back in the direction of the nearest space
Gate. John looks over his shoulder and sees Ronon glowering at the Wraith.  
  
SHEPPARD: Ronon, let it go. Take it as a compliment. They were afraid of you.  
  
(Ronon continues glaring at the Wraith. John looks at Teyla.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Dial the Gate.  
  
(Teyla hits the first three buttons on the D.H.D., but then the console
beeps.)  
  
TEYLA: I'm detecting a hyperspace window forming.  
  
SHEPPARD (to the Wraith): You guys forget something?  
  
(A hyperspace window opens and an Aurora-class battle cruiser flies out of it,
directly in front of the Jumper. John throws the Jumper into a tight bank to
avoid colliding with the ship and skims along the side of it.)  
  
TEYLA: It's an Ancestral warship!  
  
SHEPPARD: Replicators! Dial the Gate!  
  
TEYLA (dialling): How did they find us?  
  
DEX (glaring at the Wraith): I have an idea.  
  
WRAITH: You are mistaken.  
  
(The console bleeps.)  
  
TEYLA: Receiving transmission.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?!  
  
(A familiar woman's voice comes over the radio.)  
  
VOICE: Sheppard, that'd better not be you.  
  
(John stares.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Larrin?!  
  
(He activates the H.U.D. and the face of Larrin – last seen in "Travelers" –
appears on the windscreen.)  
  
LARRIN: What the hell are _you_ doing here?  
  
SHEPPARD: What the hell are _you_ doing here?  
  
LARRIN: We picked up on seven hives orbiting a single planet. It seemed like
something big was going down, so I thought we'd stop and do a little intel.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, well, you just missed ‘em.  
  
LARRIN: I see that. Now, tell me, what are you doing here? And better yet, why
didn't those hives destroy your puny little ship?  
  
SHEPPARD: I take great offence to that – but those are all good questions, so
... we should talk.  
  
LARRIN: Yes, we should. Use Bay three.  
  
(She deactivates her comms and the H.U.D. shuts down.)  
  
DEX: Better her than the Replicators, right?  
  
SHEPPARD (shrugging): Let's see what kind of mood she's in.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. The Jumper has docked and its rear door opens. John, Ronon
and Teyla stand facing the exit while the Wraith is sitting on one of the side
benches, mostly obscured by Ronon. Larrin and three guards are waiting
outside. John smiles sarcastically at her.  
  
SHEPPARD: Larrin.  
  
(The Wraith stands up and looks over Ronon's shoulder. Larrin backs up a
step.)  
  
LARRIN: That Wraith'd better be a prisoner.  
  
SHEPPARD: Now, look, I know how it looks.  
  
LARRIN (to her guards): Kill it.  
  
(As the guards draw their weapons, Ronon promptly runs out of the way to give
them a clear shot. John, on the other hand, draws his pistol and steps in
front of the Wraith while simultaneously aiming his pistol at the guards with
one hand and holding up his other hand placatingly.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hey, whoa! Hey, hey, hey, no, no, no, no. No killing, OK? Just, just
hear me out.  
  
  
LATER. Larrin is hearing John out. She is doing so in another room of the ship
where John has been tied to a chair with thick plastic ropes. He looks really
fed up as she walks around the chair.  
  
LARRIN: So the idea is to keep the Replicator ships from leaving orbit until
this McKay guy can suck them back down to the planet.  
  
SHEPPARD: Couldn't have put it better myself.  
  
LARRIN: And since you only have two ships ...  
  
SHEPPARD: ... we needed the Wraith to help.  
  
LARRIN: Hmm.  
  
SHEPPARD: We figure the Replicators have close to thirty ships guarding the
surface. The Wraith bring another seven to the fight.  
  
LARRIN: Still not very good odds.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, no, but unless we ... I don't know ... meet someone with access
to ships, it'll have to do.  
  
LARRIN: One of the planets we trade with was completely wiped out a few weeks
ago. We thought it was the Wraith but it didn't fit. They weren't culled –
they were levelled.  
  
SHEPPARD: Replicators.  
  
LARRIN: Last time we worked together, I said I'd let you keep a few secrets
... (she bends down and puts her face close to his) ... but not any more.  
  
(John can't help but glance down at her cleavage for a moment, then looks back
into her face.)  
  
LARRIN: If we do this, we go all the way. No holding back.  
  
(She stands up and continues walking round the chair. John sighs.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right. Look – your ship is still a mess. We have scientists that
have the Ancient gene. Maybe they can help you soup it up.  
  
LARRIN: Well, I'll have to talk to our governing council, but even if they
agree to move forward, it'll be up to the individual ship captains if they
wanna join us or not – and fighting alongside the Wraith isn't gonna be
popular.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we know how persuasive you can be.  
  
LARRIN: I'll start making the calls.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, great.  
  
(She heads towards the door behind him, which slides open.)  
  
SHEPPARD: This is all working out for the best. It's, uh ... except for the
part where I'm still tied up, Larrin.  
  
(He clears his throat expectantly but Larrin has already gone. A guard outside
swipes his hand over the wall panel and the door starts to close.)  
  
SHEPPARD: _Larrin?!_  
  
(The door closes. John grimaces and sighs.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS. Rodney is waiting near his lab and looks irritated as Radek hurries
to join him.  
  
McKAY: You and I have two very different definitions of "this won't take too
long."  
  
ZELENKA: I know. I'm really sorry. The naqahdah generator in Section seven is
giving us all sorts of trouble, but it's fixed now. I'm all yours. What would
you like to try now?  
  
McKAY: Actually, unencumbered by the continual need to explain things to you,
I've actually made remarkable progress.  
  
ZELENKA: Oh, really?  
  
McKAY: Mmm. The systems the Ancients had in place were designed to create
fully functional humanoid replicants, right?  
  
ZELENKA (frowning): Yes.  
  
McKAY: Well, turns out that trying to create something much simpler is –
ironically – much more difficult. In the end I was forced to compromise.  
  
ZELENKA: Wait, you're not suggesting that ...  
  
McKAY: Ah, I know it wasn't part of the plan but it was either this or
nothing.  
  
(He walks into the lab. Radek stops in the doorway and stares in horror as
Rodney stops at the side of the Ancient table and looks up at a woman with
long dark hair sitting on it. She is wearing Replicator clothing. She looks at
Radek and smiles.)  
  
REPLICATOR: Hello.  
  
(Radek walks slowly into the lab and stares at the Replicator with a mixture
of shock and awe. There is an armed guard in the lab behind the Replicator.
Rodney calmly smiles at Radek as he continues to gape.)  
  
ZELENKA: Oh, my.  
  
  
NEW LANTEA. John's Puddle Jumper flies over the ocean and heads towards the
city. After docking, John, Teyla and Ronon make their way out of the Jumper
Bay.  
  
SHEPPARD: Just gonna check on McKay – see if he made any progress.  
  
TEYLA: I must go see Doctor Keller.  
  
SHEPPARD: Why's that?  
  
TEYLA: I was stunned.  
  
SHEPPARD: We get stunned all the time – shake it off.  
  
(He and Ronon turn to walk away.)  
  
TEYLA: Circumstances are ... different.  
  
(The boys turn back to her.)  
  
SHEPPARD: How so?  
  
(Teyla hesitates, then looks around to see if anyone else is nearby. She
sighs, then looks at John.)  
  
TEYLA: I am carrying a child.  
  
SHEPPARD (shocked): You're what?  
  
(He and Ronon walk towards her. Anxiously, she steps closer to them.)  
  
TEYLA: I am pregnant, John.  
  
SHEPPARD: Is this a joke?  
  
(He turns to look at Ronon, who is gazing at Teyla's stomach. Seeing John's
expression, he stares at him.)  
  
DEX: Don't look at _me_!  
  
TEYLA: It just happened.  
  
SHEPPARD: I ... I didn't know you were seeing anyone.  
  
TEYLA: It is no-one from Atlantis.  
  
SHEPPARD (looking awkward): How ... far along are you?  
  
TEYLA: About three months.  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly): Three. How long have you known?  
  
TEYLA: Just under two.  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly): Two. We've been ... _You_ let me put you out in the field
when you've known you're three months pregnant.  
  
TEYLA: I tried to tell you.  
  
SHEPPARD (still quiet, but obviously angry): You didn't try hard _enough_.  
  
TEYLA: I am more than capable of ...  
  
SHEPPARD: You got _stunned_ today. Do you have any idea what kind of effect
that has?  
  
TEYLA: Athosian women remain _very_ active in the community well up ...  
  
SHEPPARD (interrupting): This is different. We get shot at, beat up, stunned.
We take a chance every time we walk through the Gate.  
  
TEYLA: John ...  
  
SHEPPARD: As of this _second_, you are relieved from active duty.  
  
(He turns and walks away. Ronon frowns after him as Teyla gapes in shock. She
turns to walk away but Ronon calls her back.)  
  
DEX: Hey.  
  
(He smiles at her.)  
  
DEX: Congratulations. Kanan is the father?  
  
TEYLA: You knew that we were ...?  
  
DEX: I could tell – the way you talked about him.  
  
TEYLA: Yes. He is the father.  
  
(Ronon looks at her sympathetically, remembering that Kanan and the other
Athosians are missing.)  
  
DEX: I'm sorry.  
  
TEYLA: I will find him. He is still alive – I feel it.  
  
DEX: _We'll_ find him – together.  
  
(He takes her hand.)  
  
DEX: I promise. Come on – let's go get you checked up.  
  
(Hand in hand, they start to walk to the Infirmary.)  
  
DEX: You know, uh, "Ronon" – it's a good name ... boy _or_ girl.  
  
(Teyla laughs.)  
  
  
LATER. John is walking with Sam.  
  
CARTER: So that brings the grand total to ...  
  
SHEPPARD: Fourteen. Larrin said she can get three or four more ships.  
  
CARTER: Well, that's great!  
  
SHEPPARD (unenthusiastically): Yeah.  
  
CARTER: You OK?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. I've taken Teyla off active duty.  
  
CARTER: Why?  
  
SHEPPARD: She's pregnant.  
  
CARTER: Uh ... OK. Who's the father?  
  
SHEPPARD: I never asked.  
  
CARTER: Wow! Well, it _has_ been one hell of a day. There's one more thing you
need to see. McKay has kind of thrown us a curve ball.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, great(!) I was just thinking we need more of those today.  
  
(Sam chuckles.)  
  
  
SAM'S OFFICE. John stares in disbelief at a video link to Rodney's lab where
the Replicator is wandering around looking at the equipment. He turns to
Rodney furiously.  
  
SHEPPARD: This is _not_ what we _talked_ about, Rodney!  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, I'm sorry, but the block idea didn't fly. This was the only
way.  
  
SHEPPARD: Do you have _any_ idea what kind of a security threat this is?  
  
McKAY: It's not as bad as you think. I stripped down its programming as much
as I possibly could without sacrificing basic viability. It can walk, it can
talk, but it can't replicate or change its form or anything.  
  
CARTER: Does she know why she was created?  
  
McKAY: Of course.  
  
CARTER: Well, then, she has a certain amount of self-awareness.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, so?  
  
CARTER: "So"?! Honestly, I'm not sure how comfortable I am sending her to her
death.  
  
McKAY: "Death." It can't die – it's not alive! It's a programme! I mean, its
consciousness is just a bunch of ones and zeroes. I mean, you can call it
"she" all you want but it's still just a thing. It's a prop – it's a really
advanced radio-controlled weapon. I mean, you don't feel sorry for your
bullets, do you, your bombs?  
  
CARTER: All right. Still, it's weird.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, at the end of the day it doesn't matter anyways, because we
don't have any other choice.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we _are_ teaming up with the Wraith. I guess it's that kind of
a mission.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. Rodney comes in to find the Replicator typing on a laptop while
Radek frets behind it. He hurries over to Rodney.  
  
ZELENKA: We have a problem.  
  
McKAY: What is it?  
  
REPLICATOR: I've been going over your calculations. I thought it would be
prudent for the good of the mission.  
  
(Behind its back, Rodney looks at Radek, who shrugs. The Replicator turns to
Rodney.)  
  
REPLICATOR: I hope you don't mind.  
  
McKAY: No, no, it's fine.  
  
REPLICATOR: I think you've under-estimated how quickly the nanite cells will
adapt to their changing circumstances. The mass will be able to manipulate its
own form before it reaches critical density.  
  
McKAY: What, are you sure?  
  
REPLICATOR: I'm quite positive. Once the nanites regain control, they will be
able to halt their own collapse. At that point they will be extremely
dangerous.  
  
ZELENKA: Yeah, in other words, we're back to Godzilla.  
  
REPLICATOR: I may have a solution.  
  
(Rodney stares at it. It smiles and turns back to the laptop.)  
  
  
CONFERENCE ROOM. Larrin has arrived and is sitting in the room with Sam, John,
Caldwell, Ellis, and the Wraith. Rodney is explaining the latest plan to them.  
  
McKAY: We overload their ZedP.M.s – about half a dozen of them in a
symmetrical pattern around the Replicator mass. The force of the explosion
causes the mass to compress even further, essentially creating our own
Replicator fusion bomb. The whole planet's gonna be destroyed in the process.  
  
LARRIN: You don't mess around, do you?  
  
ELLIS: All this is based on information provided by a Replicator? We have no
reason to trust it.  
  
SHEPPARD: We're _not_ trusting it – we're trusting ... (he points at Rodney,
hesitating for a moment, then going with it) ... Rodney.  
  
(He frowns as if he can't believe what he just said. Sam smiles in sympathy.)  
  
McKAY: Now, this causes a slight new wrinkle in the plan. I'll need to beam
down to the Core Room.  
  
SHEPPARD: Along with Ronon and a squad of marines.  
  
McKAY: From there, I should be able to hack into their systems and set the
ZedP.M.s to overload.  
  
CARTER: In the meantime, we'll be keeping their ships occupied. The seven
hives will space themselves around the planet equally and our smaller ships
will fill in the holes.  
  
LARRIN (to John): I could use you in _my_ Chair, Sheppard. We have an arsenal
of drones but none of my guys can fire them quite like you can.  
  
(Sam raises her eyebrows and looks at John. He shrugs and smiles sarcastically
at Larrin.)  
  
SHEPPARD: No place I'd rather be.  
  
WRAITH: The hives will be despatching sizeable waves of Darts to target the
Replicators' hyperdrive engines.  
  
CALDWELL: My 302s will join you.  
  
WRAITH (nodding its agreement): Very well.  
  
McKAY: Now, while I'm working in the Core Room, we'll beam Fran down to the
city.  
  
ELLIS: Wait a minute: "Fran"?  
  
McKAY: It's, uh, Friendly Replicator ANdroid.  
  
SHEPPARD (glaring at him): I didn't realise we were _naming_ things.  
  
McKAY: It noticed that Zelenka and I both had names and, um ... and she asked
for one, so ...  
  
(John grimaces while Sam rolls her eyes.)  
  
CARTER: All right. Let's move out.  
  
  
SPACE. Daedalus, Apollo and Larrin's ship exit hyperspace and join the fleet
of Wraith and Traveller ships. Sitting at the weapons station on board
Daedalus, Sam can't help but smile in amazement at the sight.  
  
CARTER: Wow! It's quite a sight.  
  
(Beside her, Caldwell also smiles, but a little more ruefully.)  
  
CALDWELL: I remember when the Cold War ended and we started doing joint
missions with the Russians. I thought _that_ was strange!  
  
(Sam's console beeps.)  
  
CARTER: I've got confirmation from the fleet: we're ready to go.  
  
CALDWELL (to his pilot): Set coordinates for the Replicator homeworld.  
  
(The fleet heads out and one by one the ships jump back into hyperspace.)  
  
  
HYPERSPACE. APOLLO. Fran the Replicator is gazing out of the window as
hyperspace rushes past. It turns and looks at Rodney as he types on a computer
tablet.  
  
FRAN: This is quite exciting, isn't it?  
  
(Rodney looks up at it awkwardly.)  
  
McKAY: It's a bit nerve-wracking, yeah.  
  
FRAN: I quite look forward to it.  
  
McKAY: You do?  
  
FRAN: One always wishes to fulfil one's purpose.  
  
(Behind Rodney, Radek is frowning at Fran in surprise.)  
  
McKAY: ... Right. And you're fine with all this?  
  
FRAN: Why would I not be? It's my reason for being.  
  
McKAY: Well, I know. It's just that you're ... you're gonna cease to be.  
  
FRAN: Yes.  
  
McKAY: Well, I just ... I just imagined you'd rather keep being than, uh ...
uh, than not.  
  
FRAN: Certainly you're not worried for me, are you, Doctor?  
  
McKAY: No, no, that would be silly.  
  
FRAN (smiling at him): Yes, it would.  
  
(Rodney turns away and walks over to Radek.)  
  
McKAY: Should never have given it speech.  
  
ZELENKA: Yeah.  
  
ELLIS (over comms): Doctor McKay. We're approaching the target. You need to
get with Ronon and the marines.  
  
McKAY: On my way.  
  
(He starts to leave the room.)  
  
FRAN: Doctor McKay?  
  
(Unhappy about having to talk to it again, Rodney turns back.)  
  
McKAY: Yeah.  
  
(Fran smiles at him.)  
  
FRAN: Good luck.  
  
(Rodney can't help but smile back at it.)  
  
McKAY: You too, Fran. Good luck.  
  
(He leaves the room as Fran smiles proudly.)  
  
  
REPLICATOR HOMEWORLD. The fleet comes out of hyperspace above the planet and
the ships immediately open fire on the Replicator ships in orbit. Caught by
surprise, several of the latter are blown apart in the first attack. On board
Apollo, Ellis turns to Marks.  
  
ELLIS: Target their hyperdrives with the beam weapons and launch all 302s.  
  
(He turns to his pilot.)  
  
ELLIS: Beam the Replicator and McKay's team down to their separate
coordinates.  
  
(In the city below, Fran is beamed into an empty corridor. It looks around for
a moment, then heads off down the corridor.)  
  
(In the Core Room, Ronon, Rodney and three marines beam in. Ronon and the
marines are aiming A.R.G.s (Anti-Replicator Guns). Ronon gestures to his new
colleagues.)  
  
DEX: Fan out. Fan out.  
  
(As they spread out around the room, Rodney heads towards the control panel.)  
  
DEX: All right, we're clear.  
  
McKAY: OK. This won't take more than a minute.  
  
(He gets to work.)  
  
  
Above the planet, Wraith Darts deploy from one of the hives and head for the
nearest Replicator ship. They swoop along its surface, aiming for the
hyperdrives. Despite the Replicator ship being shielded, the onslaught is too
great and part of it explodes even as it continues to return fire, blowing up
parts of the hive. Inside the hive's control room, a Wraith technician reports
to ‘our' Wraith which is piloting the ship.  
  
WRAITH TECHNICIAN: Power down in interior section.  
  
WRAITH: Transferring power from non-critical systems to hull regeneration.  
  
(Outside, Daedalus swoops over the top of the hive and fires its Asgard beams
at the Replicator ship, which explodes. Inside, Caldwell radios down to
Rodney.)  
  
CALDWELL: How's it coming, McKay? I don't wanna be doing this all day.  
  
McKAY: I'm done. I've got total control of the power grid and the ZedP.M.s,
and Fran is ... (he smiles as he looks at his computer tablet) ... Fran's just
about to activate.  
  
(Elsewhere in the city, Fran walks into a room containing several Replicators
working on various consoles.)  
  
FRAN: Hello.  
  
(The Replicators all look at it, puzzled. It smiles and closes its eyes
serenely. The Replicators look down at themselves in bewilderment as they
slowly start to disintegrate. Their dispersed cells flow towards Fran and
begin to integrate with it. In the Core Room, Rodney looks at his tablet.)  
  
McKAY: It's working. Just hold those ships off a little longer.  
  
(In space, F-302s swoop around as the battle continues. One of Larrin's fleet
is attacked by a Replicator warship and is destroyed. On Daedalus, Caldwell
grimaces.)  
  
CALDWELL: I don't know how much longer we can keep this up.  
  
CARTER: We just have to keep them busy. I don't think they realise what's
happening yet.  
  
(From a viewpoint above the city below, Replicator cells stream from all parts
of the city towards a large building where Fran began its work. The "super-
dense blob" becomes too large for the building and the walls disintegrate as
the mass expands. More Replicator cells pour towards it from all directions.)  
  
(On board Larrin's ship, a technician reports to her on the Bridge.)  
  
TECHNICIAN: One of the Replicator ships is heading towards us at maximum sub-
light. They're powering their hyperdrives.  
  
LARRIN: Sheppard. Do you see that?  
  
(In the ship's Weapons Control Platform Room, John is sitting in the Chair
looking at a screen on the wall.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. I got it.  
  
(He reclines the Chair, closes his eyes and concentrates. Drones head out from
the ship towards the Replicator ship. Some of them are intercepted by
Replicator drones but enough get through to blow the Replicator ship to bits.
Nearby, a hiveship which has been under attack from another Replicator ship
blows up.)  
  
(In the Core Room, Rodney looks at his computer tablet.)  
  
McKAY: It's working much faster than I ever imagined.  
  
DEX: When's it gonna be big enough to start pulling ‘em down from orbit?  
  
McKAY: Soon. Really soon.  
  
(On Apollo's Bridge, Ellis flinches from the light from explosions outside,
and the ship jolts violently.)  
  
MARKS: Our shields can't take much more of this, sir.  
  
ELLIS: Hopefully they won't have to – but get ready to transfer power from the
beam weapons to the ...  
  
(He trails off and stares in amazement as Replicator cells begin to stream out
of all the enemy ships and head down towards the planet. Marks gazes at the
sight.)  
  
MARKS: What the hell?  
  
ELLIS (smiling): Son of a bitch. He actually did it.  
  
(Above the city, the Replicator mass is now bigger than the tallest towers
around it, and continues to expand as cells stream down from the sky. In the
Core Room, Rodney looks up nervously as the room begins to shake.)  
  
DEX: What's happening?  
  
McKAY: It's the Replicator mass: it's so heavy, it's sinking into the planet's
surface.  
  
CARTER (from Daedalus): McKay, according to our readings, every Replicator
nanite is now part of the mass. Can you confirm?  
  
McKAY: Copy that, Sam. I'll set the countdown at ...  
  
(Just then the lights go out and the control consoles go dark.)  
  
DEX: Did _you_ do that?  
  
McKAY: No. (He looks at his tablet.) It's the mass. It's collapsed the
subterranean power grid. It's a blackout! We're not gonna be able to overload
the ZedP.M.s.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. The Replicator mass writhes as it tries to take control of
itself. In the Core Room, Rodney holds onto the control console as the room
continues shaking.  
  
McKAY: Not good, not good, not good!  
  
CARTER (from Daedalus): Do you want me to beam down there and help you?  
  
McKAY: The power grid's been destroyed. There's nothing either of us can do.  
  
SHEPPARD (from Larrin's Chair): What's the big deal? If you can't overload
ZeeP.M.s, why don't we just send some nukes down there and get this over with?  
  
McKAY: It's not as simple as that! Look, in order to implode a mass this
large, the explosion has to be timed down to the nanosecond. The force needs
to be exactly right. I mean, you can't just fire a few nukes down here and get
the job done.  
  
(The room shakes even more violently.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, it's _gotta_ be better than nothing!  
  
CALDWELL: I have to agree.  
  
CARTER: McKay, my sensors indicate that the ground around the mass is rich
with neutronium.  
  
CALDWELL: Neutronium?  
  
McKAY: It's the base raw material in the Replicator cells. It makes all the
sense in the world why the Ancients would set up on a planet where it's
abundant.  
  
CARTER: This could be very useful. Neutronium is incredibly dense.  
  
SHEPPARD: And that helps us how?  
  
(Sam opens her mouth but Rodney speaks first.)  
  
McKAY: Sam, we are geniuses!  
  
(Sam smiles.)  
  
McKAY (typing on his tablet): OK, the mass is so super-heavy that it's sinking
into the planet's surface. If I dial it up just a little bit, it'll attract
the neutronium and sink all the way to the core.  
  
CARTER: And the planet will exert enough pressure on it to cause an implosion.  
  
McKAY (typing): Just give me one ... more ...  
  
(His tablet beeps.)  
  
McKAY: Got it!  
  
(Outside, the writhing mass stops writhing and sets solid as it integrates
with the neutronium, then begins to sink into the ground.)  
  
McKAY (nervously): Um, we need to get out of here.  
  
DEX: All right, let's go! (To the marines) Come on!  
  
(Rodney disconnects his tablet from the console and Ronon grabs his arm and
supports him as they stumble into an open area of the room. The marines gather
around them and a transporter beam whisks them away, depositing them onto
Daedalus' Bridge.)  
  
McKAY: Much as I'd love to, we shouldn't stick around and watch this go down.  
  
CARTER (to Caldwell): We should tell the fleet to jump to the rendezvous point
immediately. The planet's become unstable.  
  
(Above the planet, the fleet begins to enter hyperspace. Below, the surface of
the planet begins to break apart and lava spews out of the gaps. As the last
of the fleet jumps away, leaving only the unmanned Replicator ships drifting
helplessly, the planet explodes in a massive fireball.)  
  
  
NEW LANTEA. Above the planet, Apollo and Larrin's ship are in orbit. John is
talking with Larrin on board her ship.  
  
SHEPPARD: Sorry you lost a ship.  
  
LARRIN: They knew what they were getting into.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, but still ... You gonna stick around and let my guys check
this place out?  
  
LARRIN: Well, they already gave us a head start when they got us battle-ready.
Besides, I have some things that need to get taken care of.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah? Like?  
  
LARRIN: Oh, nothing for you to concern your pretty little head with.  
  
SHEPPARD: Look, um, now that we're allies and stuff, I should probably have
some way of, of contacting you – you know, for professional reasons, in case
we need help again.  
  
(Larrin smiles.)  
  
LARRIN: I know where Atlantis is now. Don't worry – I'll stay in touch.  
  
MARKS (over radio): Colonel Sheppard, are you ready to beam?  
  
SHEPPARD (to Larrin): Good seeing you again.  
  
LARRIN (smiling): I bet it was.  
  
(She steps back as John smiles ruefully and takes another moment to look down
the length of her body before activating his headset.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Ready to beam.  
  
(A transporter beam whisks him away. Larrin smiles and walks away.)  
  
  
ATLANTIS CONTROL ROOM. Rodney, working on a console, looks up as John beams
onto the balcony.  
  
McKAY: Welcome back.  
  
SHEPPARD: Good to _be_ back. How are our good friends the Wraith?  
  
McKAY: Well, they never showed up at the rendezvous point.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hmm. Think they got caught in the explosion?  
  
McKAY: I doubt it. I guess they just figured that there was nothing left to
talk about, so, as soon as the planet blew up, we were back to being enemies.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hmm! Wraith back being enemies; Replicators don't exist any more;
you end your dry spell.  
  
McKAY (indignantly): Hey!  
  
SHEPPARD: All is right with the world. (He smiles at him.) What are you
working on, anyway?  
  
McKAY: Well, you'd be surprised to hear that removing a planet from the
database is actually a lot of work.  
  
SHEPPARD: I thought you'd be pretty good at that by now.  
  
McKAY (irritated): You really just can't resist bringing up the fact that I
once accidentally destroyed a couple of planets, can you?  
  
SHEPPARD: It was an entire solar system.  
  
(Rodney sighs, then offers him the laptop.)  
  
McKAY: You wanna do the honours?  
  
SHEPPARD: No, go ahead.  
  
McKAY: All right. (He looks at the wallscreen showing the Replicator system.)
M7R-227, you were a constant pain in the ass. It's good to see you go.  
  
(He presses the Enter key on his laptop. On the screen, the dot designating
M7R-227 beeps and flashes, then goes out.)  
  
SHEPPARD: If only that easy in real life.  
  
McKAY: Mmm. Area 51's working on it. You wanna get a late dinner?  
  
SHEPPARD: Absolutely.  
  
McKAY: All right. (He shuts down his laptop, then looks at John.) I would have
loved to have seen Ellis' face when my plan worked. (He stands up.) He's such
a tool.  
  
(He and John head off for the Mess Hall.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I like him.  
  
McKAY: You do?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. Good guy. Excellent judge of character.  
  
McKAY: Oh, _I_ see. (He chuckles.) _I_ see where you're going.  
  
(They disappear offscreen, still chatting, while the camera homes in ominously
on the wallscreen showing the space where M7R-227 used to be. The view merges
into the real location in space and the massive debris field surrounding the
area where the planet used to be. As the camera makes its way through the huge
lumps of planetary matter floating around, some of them collide with each
other and bounce off in different directions. The camera makes its way into
the middle of the debris field and reveals a Replicator warship. On the Bridge
of the ship, two Replicator technicians sit at consoles either side of the
Command Chair in which sits someone wearing black trousers, a black leather
jacket and black boots. We cannot yet see that person's face. One of the
Replicator technicians reports.)  
  
REPLICATOR: Our intel was correct. The planet has been completely destroyed.  
  
REPLICATOR 2: Can you detect any trace Replicator cells?  
  
REPLICATOR: Negative. They've been completely wiped out.  
  
(The camera pans up to show the face of the person in the Command Chair. It's
none other than Elizabeth Weir. She smiles in a satisfied way.)  
  
WEIR: Good. We can finally get to work without having to look over our
shoulders. It's time to begin.

