ATLANTIS. RODNEY'S LAB. On one of the large screens, a computer golf game,
obviously brought from Earth, is displayed. Applause can be heard from the
speakers and the game has just finished. In front of the screen, John Sheppard
is sitting in front of a laptop computer which is also showing the game.
Rodney McKay stands a short distance away with his back to him.  
  
SHEPPARD: C'mon, dude, one more round.  
  
McKAY: No, I can't.  
  
SHEPPARD: We don't have to do eighteen; we can do nine – easy course, par
three.  
  
McKAY: No, Katie's expecting me.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, be late. Women like it when guys are late.  
  
McKAY: No they don't, and I can't be late – not for _this_ lunch.  
  
(He walks over to stand behind John, smiling. John starts another round of
golf on the computer.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Why's that?  
  
McKAY: Can you keep a secret?  
  
SHEPPARD: No.  
  
McKAY (instantly): Right.  
  
(Grinning, he walks closer to him, rummaging in the pocket of his trousers. He
takes out a small box and opens it.)  
  
McKAY: I, uh, I got this on my last trip to Earth.  
  
(Inside the box is a white gold ring with a small diamond in it. John takes
the box and looks at the ring.)  
  
McKAY: I feel it's time that Katie and I move the relationship to the next
level, so ...  
  
SHEPPARD: Second base?  
  
McKAY (indignantly): Marriage.  
  
SHEPPARD: Really?!  
  
McKAY: Yes.  
  
SHEPPARD: You?!  
  
McKAY: Yes.  
  
SHEPPARD: _Married?!_  
  
McKAY: What, you don't think I'm ready? You think I'm rushing things?  
  
SHEPPARD: I didn't say _that_ ...  
  
McKAY: Well, I'm not. I'm not ready to set a date or anything but ...  
  
SHEPPARD (looking at the ring): Is this a _diamond_?!  
  
McKAY: Yes. Eighth of a carat, actually – conflict-free and got a good deal,
actually.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, I'm sure you did!  
  
McKAY: All right, so ... (he takes out his radio earpiece) ... here I go!  
  
(He drops the earpiece onto the table. John hands the box back to him, still
looking a little startled.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, I'll ... I'll buy you a beer later. We can celebrate.  
  
McKAY: Yeah – or drown my sorrows should she say no.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, no, none of that.  
  
(Rodney smiles at him nervously.)  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(He gazes towards the door, hesitating for a moment.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, go get the girl!  
  
(Rodney points towards the door, makes an incoherent sound, then puts the box
into his pocket and heads towards the exit. Teyla Emmagan, now very visibly
pregnant, walks in.)  
  
TEYLA: Hello, Rodney.  
  
McKAY: No, can't talk.  
  
(Teyla watches him leave and run off down some stairs, then turns to John.)  
  
TEYLA: John. Do you have a moment to talk?  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon Dex walks in and goes over to Jennifer Keller. His lower
right arm is covered in blood.  
  
KELLER: Another sparring accident?  
  
DEX: Actually, I slipped in the shower.  
  
KELLER: Oh, really?  
  
DEX (smiling): No. Sparring accident.  
  
(He sits down on the side of a bed as Jennifer fetches some medical gloves.)  
  
KELLER: This is the third time this week I've had to patch you up.  
  
(She looks more closely at the wound.)  
  
KELLER: You know, there are a lot of other ways you can spend your free time.  
  
DEX: Not as much fun, though.  
  
(Jennifer rolls her eyes and starts to put her gloves on.)  
  
  
CORRIDOR. Samantha Carter walks towards a transporter. From another direction,
Radek Zelenka, holding a computer tablet, also approaches the transporter.
They smile at each other as they reach the doors.  
  
ZELENKA: Colonel.  
  
CARTER: Doctor. Where are you headed?  
  
ZELENKA: Control Room.  
  
CARTER: Oh, me too. We can share.  
  
ZELENKA: Splendid.  
  
(The doors to the transporter open and Sam and Radek stand aside as a couple
of scientists step out.)  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney walks in and looks around.  
  
McKAY: Katie?  
  
(Katie Brown is sitting in the next room working on some plants and calls out
to him.)  
  
BROWN: I'm in here.  
  
McKAY: Great. Awesome!  
  
(He walks over to her.)  
  
McKAY: Hope you're hungry.  
  
BROWN: Oh, I _am_! (She takes her gloves off.)  
  
McKAY (nervously): Yeah, me too. Very hungry. Hungry, hungry, hungry.  
  
(Katie looks at his anxious expression.)  
  
BROWN: Are you all right?  
  
McKAY: I'm ... fine. Yeah, uh, yeah. Wow, this is much more, uh ...  
  
(Katie walks around the table and looks at him closely.)  
  
BROWN: You're sweating.  
  
McKAY: Oh, am I? (He runs his fingers over his forehead.) Oh, I suppose I am.
OK, um, I guess I, I should just, uh, jump right into this, you know – rip the
Band Aid off, as they say ... not, not that this is painful in any way ...
it's quite the opposite, actually.  
  
BROWN (laughing): Rodney! What's wrong?  
  
McKAY (smiling at her but still nervous): It's nothing. In fact, everything's
right ... with us, I mean. So, I was thinking – and I don't know about you,
but the way I see it, um ... I thought that, uh, maybe, it's time that we ...
you know ...  
  
(Katie puts her hands behind her back and looks at him coyly.)  
  
McKAY: ... start entertaining the notion ...  
  
(He reaches down to his trouser pocket and opens the Velcro flap. Just then an
alarm starts to sound and the doors to the room slide closed. Rodney stares at
the doors in surprise.)  
  
(In the Infirmary, Jennifer is stitching Ronon's arm. The alarm sounds and the
nearby doors slide closed. They turn and look as, across the room, a second
set of doors closes.)  
  
(All around the base, doors close.)  
  
(In Rodney's lab, an entire bulkhead wall slides downwards, sealing John and
Teyla inside.)  
  
(In the Botany Lab, Rodney and Katie hurry to the door. Rodney waves his hand
over the wall panel but it beeps negatively at him.)  
  
BROWN: What happened?  
  
(Rodney runs his hand over the panel again but it just beeps.)  
  
BROWN: Why did the doors close?  
  
(Rodney tries to pull the doors open manually. Katie helps but they can't
budge them.)  
  
BROWN: Rodney? What's going on?  
  
McKAY: It's locked. We're trapped.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. Teyla runs her hand repeatedly over the wall panel of another
entrance to the lab but the panel beeps negatively each time. John tries to
slide the door open manually but can't manage it.  
  
TEYLA: We are locked in.  
  
SHEPPARD (activating his radio headset): Rodney? Come in.  
  
(Teyla tries the wall panel again but still gets a negative beep.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Jennifer and Ronon are each trying to get a set of doors open.
Jennifer turns from her doors towards Ronon.  
  
KELLER: This one's locked too.  
  
DEX: What the hell's going on here?  
  
(As he continues to try to get his doors open, Jennifer activates her
headset.)  
  
KELLER: Doctor McKay, this is Doctor Keller. Are you there?  
  
  
TRANSPORTER. Inside the transporter, Radek has opened a panel in the wall and
has slid out the crystal tray inside it. As he tries to manipulate the
crystals, Sam presses various locations on the wall panel at the back of the
transporter with one hand and activates her headset with the other.  
  
CARTER: Rodney, this is Sam. Do you read?  
  
(Radek slides the tray back into the wall.)  
  
ZELENKA: The control mechanism is not responding. Perhaps I can physically
open the door.  
  
(He puts his computer tablet on the floor and he and Sam turn to the doors.)  
  
ZELENKA: You know, transporter doors are lighter. They're not really as heavy
as other doors in the city.  
  
(They try to push the doors apart but are unsuccessful. Radek curses in Czech.
Sam activates her headset again.)  
  
CARTER: Rodney, this is Sam. Please respond.  
  
(She taps the headset a few times.)  
  
CARTER: Colonel Sheppard, do you read?  
  
(Radek taps his own headset. Sam looks at him.)  
  
CARTER: Are you getting anything?  
  
ZELENKA: No. Communications must be down.  
  
CARTER (sighing): Oh, great(!)  
  
  
BOTANY LAB.  
  
McKAY: All right. (He clicks his fingers several times.) I'm gonna need a
radio. I left mine in the lab.  
  
BROWN: Uh, radio?  
  
(She thinks for a moment, then points through the closed doors.)  
  
BROWN: In there.  
  
McKAY: What do you mean? What, you don't have a radio in here?  
  
BROWN: It's a plant cultivation room – we haven't needed one.  
  
McKAY (walking away from the doors and starting to look around the room):
Well, you need one now. Look, that alarm was the quarantine lockdown.  
  
BROWN: Quarantine?  
  
McKAY: It's Atlantis' self-protection against another outbreak, sealing off
sections of the city to prevent the spread of a disease. I tweaked the system
after the recent Kirsan fever outbreak.  
  
BROWN: But there was no lockdown during that outbreak.  
  
McKAY (still searching the room): Well, hence the need to tweak the system,
you know – institute more vigorous protocols. OK, I need to get to a computer
– assess the degree of the situation. I mean, is this just a few sections that
have been sealed off, or maybe the whole tower?  
  
(He stops searching and stands still, his eyes widening.)  
  
McKAY: The computer's in the other room, isn't it?  
  
(Katie nods.)  
  
McKAY: With the radio.  
  
(Katie looks sheepish.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon is still trying to force the doors open. Jennifer stands
nearby.  
  
KELLER: There must be another disease outbreak.  
  
(Ronon grunts in frustration and lets go of the doors.)  
  
KELLER: McKay said he was gonna modify the quarantine system to make it more
efficient.  
  
DEX: How does cutting off the radios make it more efficient?  
  
KELLER: Well, obviously there's a glitch in the programme. Problem is, without
communications, he can't tell me how bad the outbreak is or give me the pass
codes to open whichever doors are deemed safe.  
  
DEX: Huh, great(!)  
  
KELLER: Well, in any case, I should be ready to treat the sick when they bring
them in. Will you help me?  
  
DEX: Tell me what to do.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. John has his hands against the bulkhead wall that lowered down.  
  
SHEPPARD: I could _really_ use Ronon's gun right about now.  
  
TEYLA: John, look.  
  
(John turns to see Teyla standing at a computer, looking at it.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
TEYLA: It appears there's been another outbreak.  
  
(John goes over to the computer and calls the information up onto the larger
screen. It shows a schematic of the city, all outlined in red. More screens
come up showing various information, then a message comes up on the bottom of
the screen saying “CATEGORY FIVE QUARANTINE INITIATED.”)  
  
TEYLA: What is a category five?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, I'm guessing it's a lot worse than categories one through
four. We could be here a while.  
  
(He looks down nervously at Teyla's large bump.)  
  
TEYLA: What?  
  
SHEPPARD: It's just that every time one of these things happens in the movies,
the pregnant woman goes into labour.  
  
TEYLA: I am still a long way from my due date.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, it's the same thing in the movies and then, wham.  
  
TEYLA: Relax, John. I will be fine.  
  
SHEPPARD: Why don't you sit down?  
  
TEYLA: I am all right.  
  
SHEPPARD: You know, just to be on the safe side, sit down.  
  
(He pulls a stool over for her. Sighing, she sits down. John turns back to the
computer.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Let's see what else we can find out.  
  
  
TRANSPORTER.  
  
CARTER: Quarantine lockdown.  
  
ZELENKA: Yes.  
  
(Sam turns back to the wall panel.)  
  
CARTER: Well, I don't know why communications would be affected.  
  
ZELENKA: Well, Rodney did say he was going to modify some of the Ancient
protocols. Perhaps he made a mistake – made the security measures a little too
aggressive.  
  
CARTER: We need to try and access the mainframe.  
  
(She picks up the computer tablet.)  
  
ZELENKA: Yes, but unfortunately that's _all_ you'll be able to do. This tablet
has limited RAM. It's configured mainly for read-only field diagnostics.  
  
CARTER: Well, we should at least be able to determine the extent of the
lockdown.  
  
ZELENKA: Yes.  
  
(Sam activates the tablet and its desktop picture appears. Sam looks in
surprise at the photograph of a pigeon.)  
  
ZELENKA: Oh, sorry.  
  
(He laughs nervously and takes the tablet.)  
  
ZELENKA: It's one of my pigeons.  
  
(Sam frowns at him uncomprehendingly.)  
  
ZELENKA: I raise them as a hobby back home.  
  
CARTER: Ah!  
  
ZELENKA: Right, let's see what we have here.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. John has sat down on a stool beside Teyla and they are working
on separate laptops. John glances at her.  
  
SHEPPARD: You comfortable? You want anything? You wanna lie down, eat?  
  
TEYLA: This is what I wanted to talk to you about.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
TEYLA: Your decision to remove me from the team's missions.  
  
SHEPPARD: We're not gonna go through this again, are we?  
  
TEYLA: No, no, no, it's all right. I understand.  
  
SHEPPARD: It's not permanent. You're just gonna have to ease off, then you
have your baby and in a few months you're back in action.  
  
TEYLA: _Will_ I be? If it is wrong to place myself and my unborn child in
danger _now_, will it be any less to do so when he is born? John, it's bad
enough that my son may grow up without a father, but if I were to be hurt or
killed, he would be left without a mother as well.  
  
SHEPPARD: It's tough, I know. I've got a friend from college: she's a cop;
three kids. She goes through this every day when she goes to work.  
  
TEYLA: How does she make peace with herself?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, she figures she's fighting the bad guys, keeping ‘em off the
streets, so not only is she protecting _her_ kids, she's protecting other kids
too.  
  
(He looks at Teyla.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Look, you have to understand – your child has a family here in case
anything ever happens.  
  
(Teyla smiles at him and they get back to work.)  
  
  
TRANSPORTER. Radek has accessed the mainframe and he and Sam stare at his
tablet in surprise.  
  
ZELENKA: Category _five_?!  
  
CARTER: The _entire_ city?! You know, this disease spreads more rapidly than
anything I've ever encountered before. Something's ...  
  
ZELENKA (talking over her): Something's wrong, yeah. Look at the levels:
primary and secondary systems. Look, wild fluctuations in every sector.  
  
CARTER: Other systems are down too – not just communications. Long-range
scanners are out; ventilation in several areas, including this tower.  
  
ZELENKA: Oh, oh, and plumbing too! Oh dear!  
  
CARTER: It's like the city's entire operating system is on the fritz. This may
not even be an outbreak at all. This entire lockdown could be the result of a
malfunction. Don't worry – I'm sure McKay is sitting at a work station fixing
this problem as we speak.  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney has his arms folded in frustration. Katie, standing beside
him, looks at him.  
  
BROWN: I'm sure others are working on the problem. Doctor Keller, Doctor
Zelenka, Colonel Carter ...  
  
McKAY: Well, they'd _better_ be.  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon has taken a drip stand, has wedged the end of it into a gap
between the doors and is trying to lever them open. The stand bends beyond its
tolerance and snaps. Hearing the noise, Jennifer runs in from the next room.  
  
KELLER: Hey! Hey-hey-hey-hey!  
  
(She trots over to him and takes his arm. The bandage covering his wound is
soaked in blood.)  
  
KELLER: You tore your stitches.  
  
(She pulls him towards a bed.)  
  
KELLER: God, honestly, I don't think I've ever met anyone with such a reckless
aggression.  
  
(Ronon smiles smugly.)  
  
KELLER: That's not a compliment.  
  
DEX: If you say so.  
  
KELLER (pointing to the bed): Lay down.  
  
(Ronon lies on the bed as Jennifer wheels over a trolley and puts on another
pair of gloves.)  
  
KELLER: OK, look – I don't think we're gonna have any luck opening those doors
on our own. We're probably just better off waiting for McKay and the others to
figure out what needs to be done and which doors are even safe to open.  
  
DEX: So we're just supposed to sit here and wait?  
  
KELLER: Yes! And be ready at a moment's notice to treat the sick.  
  
DEX: I'm not very good at sitting and waiting.  
  
KELLER (laughing): No kidding!  
  
(She starts to cut away the bandage from his arm.)  
  
KELLER: Well, maybe we could pass the time by getting to know each other
better.  
  
(Ronon narrows his eyes at her.)  
  
DEX: What do you have in mind?  
  
(Jennifer's eyes widen.)  
  
KELLER: Oh, I, I mean, I didn't ... you know, I meant ... just, like, talk.
(She laughs nervously.) I didn't mean ... Yeah! So, anyway, um, let's talk!  
  
(Ronon looks at her blankly. Jennifer grimaces.)  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. At the doorway, Katie tries to prise off the wall panel but fails.
She turns to Rodney who is slumped against a table.  
  
BROWN: Can't you fiddle with this thing and get the door open?  
  
McKAY: I could fiddle with it, sure. As to actually getting the door open, not
a chance. Quarantine protocol completely disables the doors' control
mechanism. I mean, the whole _point_ of it is to keep people from getting out.  
  
BROWN (walking towards him): Oh, it's gonna be OK. Doctor Keller and Zelenka
...  
  
McKAY (interrupting): We don't _know_ that. We have _no_ idea if it's gonna be
OK. For all we know, Zelenka and Keller could already be infected. We don't
even know how much of the city is in quarantine! If this is serious – and we
have no reason to believe otherwise – we could be looking at a city-wide
lockdown.  
  
BROWN (folding her arms): You are thinking the worst-case scenario.  
  
McKAY: Hello! This is what I do! Someone needs to think ahead to the worst
possible outcome to any situation in order to properly defend against it.  
  
BROWN: _Any_ situation – even the good ones.  
  
McKAY: Hey, it doesn't take much for a good situation to turn ugly. One minute
you're happily riding your bicycle back from a senior Lagrangian mechanics
mid-terms – you know, the warm breeze in your face – next thing you know,
you're flying through the air because you just hit a pothole.  
  
(Katie unfolds her arms and walks towards him sympathetically.)  
  
BROWN: Oh, Rodney! Did that happen to you?  
  
McKAY (pulling away from her): The point is, one must _always_ be on guard,
you know, _always_ looking out for the potholes. Now, you can call me a
catastrophist, but it's a necessary burden I bear.  
  
(He walks over to the doors and looks at them.)  
  
BROWN: A mindset like that and a person would live in a constant state of
worry and fear.  
  
(Rodney turns back to her.)  
  
McKAY: You forgot “despair.”  
  
  
TRANSPORTER. Radek is looking at his computer tablet.  
  
ZELENKA: Oh, it's definitely a malfunction – and surprisingly it's nothing
Rodney did.  
  
(He shows the screen to Sam.)  
  
ZELENKA: Look at that: I'm reading a sudden spike in power caused by an
intense ionospheric storm earlier today. This new planet continues to surprise
us. It is going to require some drastic recalibration to account for any
future ionospheric activity, that's for sure.  
  
CARTER: Well, first things first – we need to get to a work station and fix
this malfunction.  
  
ZELENKA: Yes, I agree. You know, I'm a little bit puzzled as to why Rodney
hasn't solved this problem yet. He's been a little off his game lately.  
  
CARTER: Maybe he doesn't have access to a computer.  
  
ZELENKA: Rodney?! Without his computer?! (He chuckles.) _This_ I have yet to
witness.  
  
CARTER: Well, whatever the cause, since there's no outbreak, there's no reason
for us to be stuck in here.  
  
ZELENKA: Well, yes, other than the doors being sealed shut ...  
  
(Sam closes her eyes in despair at him stating the obvious.)  
  
ZELENKA: ... and heavier than we had previously thought.  
  
CARTER: Can you use this tablet to access this control panel?  
  
(She opens the wall panel that Radek had previously opened. The crystal tray
slides out.)  
  
CARTER: Maybe we could at least figure out a way to get the doors open.  
  
ZELENKA: Doubtful. The transporter panel has no wireless interface, and even
if we could hook it up directly, you know, with the limitations of the RAM on
this tablet ...  
  
CARTER (interrupting): May I?  
  
(She takes the tablet, pulls its cable out and starts to plug it into the
panel.)  
  
CARTER: Thanks.  
  
ZELENKA: Yes, of course.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. John and Teyla are still working on their computers and looking
at information on the screen.  
  
TEYLA: Well, life signs all over the city. Everyone is trapped as we are.  
  
SHEPPARD: Ventilation is down, which means they're running out of air.  
  
(He rubs his brow tiredly, then notices Rodney's radio earpiece lying on the
table.)  
  
SHEPPARD: He's in the Botany Lab.  
  
TEYLA: Who?  
  
SHEPPARD: Rodney. He went to pick up Katie Brown for a lunch date. Have you
been in that plant room? There's no computers, no radios ...  
  
TEYLA: If he's locked in there ...  
  
SHEPPARD: ... he's gonna be freaking.  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney is using a metal trowel to try and prise the doors open.
Failing, he pulls it free and sighs. Closing his eyes, he doubles over,
breathing heavily. Katie looks at him.  
  
BROWN: Oh, are you all right?  
  
McKAY: I don't know. I feel all dizzy, a little feverish.  
  
BROWN: Here.  
  
(She fetches a stool.)  
  
BROWN: Rodney, come on, sit down.  
  
McKAY: Right.  
  
(He walks over and sits on the stool. Katie puts her hand on his forehead and
coos sympathetically, then puts the back of her hand against the side of his
face.)  
  
BROWN: You don't _feel_ warm.  
  
McKAY: You sure? ‘Cause my joints ache. It's usually the first signs of a
fever.  
  
(Katie takes his left hand, turns it so that she can see the watch he is
wearing and starts to take his pulse.)  
  
BROWN: Pulse ... ooh, one twenty.  
  
McKAY: It's normal.  
  
BROWN: Oh.  
  
(She smiles for a moment, then frowns at him.)  
  
McKAY: Yes, I've always had a rapid heartbeat, even since I was a kid, even
when I was in a deep sleep. Our family doctor once wrote a paper about it.  
  
BROWN: Oh!  
  
McKAY: How are _you_ feeling?  
  
BROWN: I'm fine.  
  
McKAY: OK, well, you let me know when _you_ start feeling sick, all right?  
  
(He stands up and goes back to the doors.)  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. John and Teyla are still working on the computers.  
  
TEYLA: It seems that there was some sort of disturbance in the planet's
ionosphere a few hours ago. After that is when the system became unstable.  
  
SHEPPARD: New planet, new problems.  
  
TEYLA: There may not even _be_ a disease outbreak.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, but the city's still in lockdown. You know, if Rodney can't
get ahold of a computer, he's not gonna be able to shut it down.  
  
TEYLA: Perhaps Doctor Zelenka or Colonel Carter can do it.  
  
SHEPPARD: If they could have, they would have done it already. They probably
can't get ahold of one either.  
  
TEYLA: Can _anyone_ do it?  
  
SHEPPARD (shaking his head): They'd have to know Rodney's password.  
  
(Teyla sighs.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Fortunately, I do.  
  
TEYLA: He told you his password?!  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, he didn't think I'd remember it.  
  
(He starts to type.)  
  
SHEPPARD: One six four three one eight seven nine one nine six eight four two.  
  
(The computer beeps.)  
  
SHEPPARD: See? Doesn't take a genius.  
  
TEYLA: It doesn't?  
  
SHEPPARD: 1643 is the year Isaac Newton was born; 1879, Einstein; and 1968 ...  
  
TEYLA: The year Rodney was born.  
  
SHEPPARD: _Never_ underestimate the size of that man's ego.  
  
TEYLA: Wait – weren't there other numbers?  
  
SHEPPARD: Forty-two.  
  
TEYLA: What is that?  
  
SHEPPARD: It's the Ultimate Answer to the great question of life, the universe
and everything.  
  
(He types on as Teyla looks bewildered.)  
  
SHEPPARD: OK – we're in.  
  
  
TRANSPORTER. As Sam continues to work on the computer tablet which is now
plugged into the crystal tray, Radek sighs. The small space has become hot and
so he takes his jacket off. Sam looks at him.  
  
CARTER: Oh, that's a good idea.  
  
(She puts the tablet down, unzips her own jacket and takes it off. Radek, who
has just dropped his jacket to the floor, turns back to find himself staring
down Sam's cleavage. Still looking down at the tablet, Sam is unaware of it as
he looks awkward and turns away. She drops her jacket to the floor, pushes up
her sleeves and pulls her collar out and flaps it for a moment to get some air
inside her top.)  
  
CARTER: OK, much better.  
  
(She picks up the tablet again. Radek pulls his own top away from his chest
and flaps it to try to cool himself down – not just from the heat.)  
  
ZELENKA: Yes, _much_ better(!)  
  
CARTER (typing on the tablet): The control panel won't recognise
authentication.  
  
ZELENKA: It's because it's not configured, as I said earlier ...  
  
CARTER: Yeah, I know, which is why I've written a work-around to free up
memory to allow for local device input.  
  
ZELENKA (startled): Oh, so fast!  
  
CARTER: Well, there's obviously not enough RAM to handle the city's entire
operating system, but we should at least be able to open these doors. All I
need to do is get it to recognise the authentication command.  
  
ZELENKA: Perhaps if you bypass the secondary crystals and go direct to the ...  
  
(He reaches into the panel and starts to move the crystals.)  
  
CARTER: No, I don't think ...  
  
(The panel explodes, throwing Radek across the transporter.)  
  
CARTER: Oh, Doc! Radek!  
  
(Radek falls to the floor. Sam crouches down to him as he whimpers and shakes
his hand, then looks up at the doors.)  
  
ZELENKA: They didn't open.  
  
CARTER: No.  
  
(She looks at the tablet.)  
  
CARTER: And the tablet's fried.  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. Teyla has left the computer and is sitting nearby while John
continues to work on his. He looks at it as it beeps.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, crap.  
  
TEYLA: What is it?  
  
SHEPPARD: Part of the lockdown programme includes broadcasting an alert beacon
to approaching ships to warn them about a disease outbreak.  
  
TEYLA: The city is doing this right now?  
  
SHEPPARD: Five by five – clear enough for the entire neighbourhood to pick up.  
  
TEYLA: Can you shut it off?  
  
SHEPPARD: Not from here. It can only be turned off from the sub-space
transmitter which is up in the Control Room – which means the guys upstairs
either haven't noticed it or, more likely, they don't have Rodney's password
to turn it off.  
  
TEYLA: As long as that signal is broadcast, Atlantis is vulnerable to
discovery.  
  
SHEPPARD: If it hasn't already happened.  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney and Katie are standing near the doors.  
  
BROWN: How are you feeling?  
  
McKAY: The same.  
  
(He looks at her unhappy expression and reaches to take her hands.)  
  
McKAY: Hey. You look like you could use some cheering up.  
  
BROWN: As a matter of fact, I could.  
  
(Rodney gazes at her for a long time. She frowns at him, confused.)  
  
BROWN: What _is_ it?  
  
McKAY: Nothing, I ...  
  
(He trails off and looks around the room for some distraction. He points.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, hey, isn't that the, um ...?  
  
(Katie looks. He's pointing at a tall cactus with feathery fronds growing out
of the top of it.)  
  
BROWN: Oh, the Rodneyana Villosa? The plant I named for you.  
  
(They walk towards it.)  
  
McKAY: Right. It's grown.  
  
BROWN: Yes, it's really flourished here. (She runs her fingers around the rim
of the pot.) I've been kind of doting on it, giving it a little extra T.L.C.
... (she gestures slowly up the length of the cactus) ... and it just gets
bigger and bigger ...  
  
(Rodney coughs in embarrassment but then it turns into a full coughing fit.
Katie goes over to him, concerned.)  
  
BROWN: We need to get you to the Infirmary.  
  
McKAY: I already told you it's impossible. Look, the whole point of the
lockdown is to prevent the spread of disease, which means no-one's going
anywhere.  
  
BROWN: But how are the doctors supposed to treat anyone if they can't reach
them?  
  
(Rodney gazes at her.)  
  
McKAY: I'm sorry, Katie. Look, I've no doubt infected you by now.  
  
BROWN: I feel fine. You think I'd have at least a few symptoms.  
  
McKAY: Every disease is different. I mean, we have no idea what the incubation
period for this strain is. It could be hours, it could be days. I mean, who
knows when I caught it? No, it's just a matter of time before you succumb too.  
  
(Katie frowns.)  
  
McKAY: Anyway, what were we talking about?  
  
(Katie smiles bravely for him.)  
  
BROWN: You were gonna cheer me up.  
  
McKAY: Oh, right!  
  
(He gazes into the distance, lost for something to say.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon is still lying on the bed while Jennifer paces back and forth
at the foot of the bed. It seems that they haven't spoken to each other for
some time. Ronon pulls himself up into a sitting position.  
  
DEX: You OK?  
  
KELLER: Yeah. I just ... I don't like sitting around either.  
  
(Ronon smiles sympathetically.)  
  
KELLER: Especially when there's people out there who need me.  
  
DEX: You're not letting them down.  
  
KELLER: There's a disease outbreak and I'm a doctor stuck in this room.  
  
DEX: That's right. “Stuck.” It's not your fault you can't get to them, so
don't put the blame on yourself.  
  
(Jennifer smiles gratefully at him. He smiles back.)  
  
DEX: You remind me of someone I used to know. She put way too much pressure on
herself.  
  
(Jennifer walks closer to him.)  
  
KELLER: Someone from Sateda?  
  
DEX: Yeah.  
  
KELLER: Who was she?  
  
DEX: She was someone I cared about. (He clears his throat uncomfortably.) She
was killed during the siege.  
  
KELLER: I'm sorry.  
  
DEX: Yeah. I wanted her to leave but she chose to stay behind and help the
others. (He coughs again, then smiles at Jennifer.) Should have forced her to
go.  
  
KELLER: It's not your fault. She _chose_ to stay. Don't put that blame on
yourself.  
  
(They gaze at each other for a long moment, then Ronon nods.)  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. John has got the cover off the wall panel and is swapping the
crystals around. He puts the final one back in but the panel beeps negatively.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, _come_ on!  
  
TEYLA: Nothing's working.  
  
(John starts looking around the room.)  
  
SHEPPARD: OK, on to Plan B.  
  
TEYLA: Which is ...?  
  
SHEPPARD: Which is blast our way out of here and get to the Control Room.
Start searching for any explosives Rodney might have left.  
  
TEYLA: Well, I doubt that he would ...  
  
(Turning to look around the room, she suddenly turns back and stares down at
her stomach wide-eyed. John sees her expression and stops, staring at her
nervously. She looks up at him briefly, then down at her stomach again and
gasps. John points to her anxiously.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Don't tell me that you're, uh ...  
  
(Teyla smiles.)  
  
TEYLA: The baby just kicked.  
  
SHEPPARD: Really?  
  
(He walks towards her.)  
  
TEYLA: There it is again. Here ...  
  
(She takes his hand and places it on her stomach. He smiles.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Maybe he wants to get out of here as much as we do.  
  
(Teyla's smile begins to fade. John looks at her in concern.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Teyla, you OK?  
  
(She sighs as if in pain, but nods.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Just hang in there. I'm gonna get everybody out of here.  
  
(He walks over to a window overlooking the city and looks through it, then
turns and picks up a stool. Teyla stands up and walks towards him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Stand back.  
  
TEYLA: What are you ...?  
  
(John hurls the stool at the window, which shatters. Teyla hurries over and
grabs his arm.)  
  
TEYLA: John, what are you doing?  
  
SHEPPARD: The Control Room is only four floors above us. All I have to do is
climb up and I'm in.  
  
TEYLA: Climb the tower?! Is that even possible?  
  
(John clambers up onto the window sill and steps out onto a narrow ledge
outside.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Sure. Batman did it all the time!  
  
(From a viewpoint above his head, we can see that it's a straight drop several
hundred feet into the ocean if he should fall. He looks up the side of the
tower. There are lots of ledges and vents all the way up but they're not close
together and they only jut out a little way. To add to the difficulty, there's
a strong wind blowing. He looks down to Teyla.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Piece of cake. Don't worry – I'll be fine. Gotta turn off that
beacon.  
  
(Slowly and carefully, he starts to climb.)  
  
  
TRANSPORTER. Sam and Radek are sitting on the floor covered in sweat. Radek
also appears to still be in pain from the shock he received earlier.  
  
ZELENKA: I'm sorry. I honestly thought that if we bypassed the secondary
crystal ...  
  
CARTER (talking over him): Radek, I know. We've been through this. I'm not
angry with you.  
  
(She nods and smiles reassuringly at him.)  
  
CARTER: We could really use one of your pigeons around now.  
  
(Radek frowns.)  
  
ZELENKA: Well, they're not for eating.  
  
CARTER: No, no! You know, I meant to get help.  
  
(He looks at her blankly.)  
  
CARTER: Like homing pigeons – you tie a little S.O.S. note to their feet and
...  
  
(She mimes throwing the pigeon into the air. Radek looks upwards.)  
  
ZELENKA: Yeah, but there's no window in here.  
  
CARTER: I know. I was just ...  
  
(She gives up, realising that Radek doesn't seem to understand that she's just
making small talk.)  
  
  
OUTSIDE OF THE TOWER. John carefully hauls himself up what look like a couple
of vents. Above him is what appears to be an external light, though it's not
lit at the moment. There's a thin strap of metal wrapped over the light and he
reaches for it. As he puts his full weight on it, the top of the strap tears
loose and he loses his footing and swings around so that he is facing away
from the tower. Clinging onto the strap with both hands, he manages to swing
himself around again. He hangs for a moment, gathering his strength, then
hauls himself upwards using only his arms until he can get his feet onto a
very narrow ledge. Carefully straightening up on top of it, he jumps across to
a long ledge sticking out from the tower and dangles from it with his fingers.
Again he takes a few breaths, then hauls himself up on top of it.  
  
(Some time later, his fingers appear over the top of the railing of the
Control Room exterior balcony and he starts to pull himself over it.)  
  
(Inside the Gateroom, Major Lorne and a group of scientists are still trying
to prise open one of the doors. Up in the Control Room, Chuck the technician
is watching them from the balcony but turns and goes back to the consoles as a
female technician reports from one of them.)  
  
TECHNICIAN: OK, I've got ventilation restored to most of the tower. Still
working on getting air up here but so far nothing's responding.  
  
(Just then she and the others look round in surprise as someone hurls a tree
in a pot in through one of the glass doors. John steps through the gap.)  
  
CHUCK: Colonel! How did you get out there?!  
  
SHEPPARD (running over to a console): Long story. We've got to turn off the
beacon. It's broadcasting our location to every ship in the neighbourhood.  
  
TECHNICIAN: We already tried that. It's password protected.  
  
(As John starts to type, Lorne and the other scientists run up the stairs,
looking at the broken glass on the floor.)  
  
LORNE: What happened?  
  
(He looks at John as he types in Rodney's password.)  
  
LORNE: Colonel! Where the hell d'_you_ come from?  
  
(The image on the laptop screen changes.)  
  
CHUCK: Beacon's deactivated.  
  
(John straightens up, relieved. His relief lasts all of a couple of seconds,
then a very familiar alarm starts to sound. As John frowns, all the computer
screens go dark. Chuck runs to another laptop and types but his screen stays
dark.)  
  
CHUCK: Computers just shut down – _all_ of them.  
  
LORNE (referring to the alarm): Is that the, uh ...?  
  
SHEPPARD: Self destruct.  
  
  
TRANSPORTER. Sam and Radek scramble to their feet as they hear the alarm.  
  
CARTER: That's the self destruct sequence!  
  
ZELENKA: Why would anybody arm it?  
  
CARTER: More importantly, how much time do we have?  
  
ZELENKA: I don't know. Whoever arms it designates the duration – you know,
depending on how quickly he wants to ... blow up the city.  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Hearing the alarm, Ronon gets off the bed and storms towards the
doors.  
  
KELLER: Ronon.  
  
(He starts hauling on one of the doors, trying to slide it open.)  
  
KELLER: Ronon, we've already tried. It's not gonna open.  
  
(Ronon turns away from the doors and starts looking around the room.)  
  
DEX: We'll just have to blast a hole in it.  
  
KELLER: With what? You don't have your gun.  
  
DEX: Got any C4 in here?  
  
KELLER: In the Infirmary?!  
  
DEX: Anything we can use to act as an explosive.  
  
KELLER: I don't know. Uh ...  
  
(She thinks for a moment, then heads for another part of the room.)  
  
KELLER: The oxygen tanks, maybe?  
  
DEX (smiling): Right! Shoot ‘em like Sheriff Brody did in the movie “Jaws.”  
  
KELLER: Yeah, I know, I've seen it. How do you ...?  
  
(Ronon walks over to one of the tanks.)  
  
DEX: Sheppard showed it to me. It was a good movie!  
  
(He picks up the tank and looks at it, smiling.)  
  
DEX: Flammable.  
  
(He carries the tank across the room and puts it onto a bed.)  
  
DEX: All right, all we need is a gun to shoot it with. You got one in here?  
  
KELLER: Again, Infirmary, not Armoury.  
  
  
CONTROL ROOM.  
  
LORNE: I don't get it. Why would you arm the self destruct?  
  
SHEPPARD: I didn't.  
  
(The alarm stops. Everyone looks upwards for a moment, then John turns to
Chuck who smiles in satisfaction.)  
  
CHUCK: _Finally_.  
  
SHEPPARD: You shut it down?  
  
CHUCK: No, just the alarm.  
  
TECHNICIAN (to Lorne): The city actually armed the self destruct by itself,
Major.  
  
LORNE: Well, why?  
  
CHUCK: Last thing I saw on the screen was a breach of quarantine alert.  
  
(John and Lorne both turn and look at the broken door.)  
  
SHEPPARD: My coming into the room caused the city to think the disease was
spreading.  
  
LORNE (to the technician): Whoa-whoa-whoa – but you said earlier that there
_was_ no outbreak.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, there isn't, but the city doesn't know that.  
  
TECHNICIAN: It's all part of the system-wide malfunction. The city must think
there's a disease and now it's out of control.  
  
CHUCK: So blowing up Atlantis is its final counter-measure.  
  
SHEPPARD: Did you see how much time was left on the self destruct?  
  
CHUCK: No. The computer shut down before I could see.  
  
(John walks over to the broken door and looks out onto the balcony for a
moment before turning back to the others.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right. If we can't shut it down from here, we're gonna have to
turn it off at the source.  
  
TECHNICIAN: But that's in the main Power Room.  
  
CHUCK: That's six levels down.  
  
LORNE: We can't get there. The Jumper Room's sealed off, as well as every
other corridor out of the Gateroom.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'll just have to climb back down.  
  
TECHNICIAN: The Power Room's in the centre of the tower. Even if you climb
back down, you'd still have to get through several sealed doors before
reaching it.  
  
(John turns to Lorne.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You got any C4?  
  
LORNE: Yeah, a little bit.  
  
(He reaches into his vest pocket and takes out a small block.)  
  
SHEPPARD: That's it?!  
  
LORNE (shrugging): That's it.  
  
(John grimaces, then looks at Chuck and the other technician.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You two, with us.  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney and Katie are sitting side by side on stools, facing the
doors.  
  
BROWN: The alarm turned off. That's a good sign, right?  
  
McKAY (quietly): I don't know.  
  
BROWN: I mean, maybe someone found a cure for the disease, or at least figured
out how to turn off the self destruct.  
  
McKAY (despairingly): Or maybe someone just figured out how to turn off the
alarm.  
  
(He sighs and sags on the seat.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, I have to lie down.  
  
(He stands up and walks to an open space on the floor. Katie follows him,
putting her hand on his back comfortingly.)  
  
BROWN: Rodney, you can't give up.  
  
(Ignoring her, Rodney starts to lie down on his back on the floor. She kneels
down beside him.)  
  
BROWN: You have to keep fighting. I know it looks bleak but ...  
  
(She trails off as Rodney settles back onto the floor and something drops out
of his trouser pocket. She picks up the ring box.)  
  
BROWN: What's this?  
  
(Groaning, Rodney lifts his head again and sees what she's holding.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, that's ... When I came here today, I was ...  
  
(Katie opens the box and gasps as she sees what's inside.)  
  
McKAY: ... I was gonna propose – ask for your hand in marriage.  
  
(Closing his eyes and groaning, he lays his head back down on the floor.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Standing by the bed with the oxygen tank lying on it, Jennifer puts
a protective plastic shield over her face as Ronon picks up the second tank
and starts to carry it across the room.  
  
KELLER: This is not gonna work.  
  
DEX (putting the tank down and turning to her): What are you talking about?
This is _your_ idea.  
  
KELLER: Yeah – after which I immediately said there was a one in a million
chance it would work.  
  
DEX: Yeah, well, this is that one.  
  
KELLER: If I cut more than a millimetre too far ...  
  
DEX: ... the tank'll blow. I know. So just make sure you don't cut too far.
Just score it, like you said.  
  
(Jennifer looks down at the tank anxiously.)  
  
DEX (smiling): Hey, look, if _you_ don't do it, _I'm_ gonna do it.  
  
(Jennifer nods nervously.)  
  
DEX: C'mon, you've got this.  
  
(He picks up the other tank and takes it across the room. Looking at the tank
on the bed in dread, Jennifer picks up a surgical drill and puts it against
the neck of the tank. Wincing, she fires the drill for a split second. Sparks
fly. She grimaces, then fires the drill again, and again.)  
  
  
RODNEY'S LAB. Teyla stands looking out of the broken window, then steps up
onto a box, leans out and then steps up onto the window sill. Looking up the
length of the tower, she steps out onto the ledge outside. Clinging onto the
window, she looks up again before looking down at the enormous drop below her.
After a few moments, she sensibly climbs back into the lab.  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon walks across to Jennifer as she continues firing short bursts
of the drill into the neck of the oxygen tank. Finally she looks up at him.  
  
KELLER: OK, that's it. I mean, that's as far as I should go.  
  
DEX: All right. Let's do it.  
  
(He picks up the tank and takes it across to the doors. He has pushed one bed
– the bed with the scanner above it – so that it is parallel to the doors. A
second bed is at right angles to the foot of the scanner bed. The second
oxygen tank is standing on the second bed with its neck propped up against the
scanner. He lays the drilled tank onto the scanner bed so that it is
underneath the scanner, with the neck facing directly away from the doors.
Once he is confident that everything is in position, he picks up a small
Ancient device and takes it over to Jennifer, smiling. They go into the next
room and take cover behind the wall as Ronon switches on the device. He looks
at Jennifer.)  
  
DEX: All right. You ready?  
  
KELLER: No.  
  
(Grinning, Ronon activates the device. The scanner starts to run up the bed.
The second oxygen tank falls downwards and drops onto the neck of the drilled
tank. Weakened by the drilling, the neck breaks and the pressure from the
escaping oxygen sends the tank soaring towards the doors. It smashes into the
doors and bounces off, hitting the wall beside the doors. The wall is slightly
curved and this turns the tank around 180 degrees and sends it flying into the
Infirmary. Ronon and Jennifer duck down as the tank races across the room and
smashes into the wall on the other side. Ronon looks at Jennifer.)  
  
DEX: You OK?  
  
KELLER: Yeah.  
  
DEX: All right.  
  
(They get up and hurry over to look and see whether the tank made any impact
on the doors.)  
  
KELLER: Oh, you've _gotta_ be kidding me.  
  
(Ronon looks at the undamaged door.)  
  
DEX: It's a lot stronger than a shark.  
  
  
Somewhere in the city, John has put a small piece of C4 onto a set of doors
and attached a firing mechanism. Pulling out the safety tab, he turns and
walks around the corner to where Lorne, Chuck and the female technician are
waiting. He holds up the detonator.  
  
SHEPPARD: Fire in the hole.  
  
(He activates the detonator and there's an explosion. Somewhere nearby in the
transporter, Sam and Radek hear the explosion.)  
  
ZELENKA: What's that?  
  
(They scramble to their feet and press their ears against the doors, then
start to hammer on them while shouting loudly.)  
  
CARTER: Hello?  
  
ZELENKA: Hey!  
  
CARTER: Hey!  
  
ZELENKA: We're in here!  
  
(A short distance away, John and the others look round at the sound of distant
shouting.)  
  
LORNE: You hear that?  
  
SHEPPARD: The transporter. Somebody's in there.  
  
(As Sam and Radek continue yelling, the others run towards the transporter.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Grab a side.  
  
(He and Lorne each seize one of the doors, which have more handholds on the
outside, and pull the doors open. Radek and Sam stumble out.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Colonel. You all right?  
  
CARTER: Yeah, I'm fine.  
  
ZELENKA: I'm fine too!  
  
SHEPPARD: There's no outbreak. It's just a malfunction.  
  
CARTER: We know. Was Rodney the one who finally disabled the self destruct?  
  
SHEPPARD: No, it's still on, but I haven't heard from Rodney.  
  
CARTER: I need to get to a work station.  
  
CHUCK: The computers are down.  
  
LORNE: We're trying to get to the main Power Room so we can physically cut the
power to the self destruct.  
  
SHEPPARD: But all the doors are sealed shut. We just used the last of our C4
getting here.  
  
ZELENKA: Does that mean we're still stuck here?  
  
SHEPPARD: That's what it looks like.  
  
CARTER: How much time is left on the self destruct?  
  
TECHNICIAN: We don't know. The computer shut down before we could see.  
  
CARTER: So it could happen any time?  
  
(Chuck nods.)  
  
CARTER: Great(!)  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney is still lying flat on his back on the floor. Katie has
stood up and is smiling down at the ring in its box.  
  
BROWN: You were gonna propose to me? Today?  
  
(Rodney raises his head.)  
  
McKAY: Oh – I mean, before the ... before the lockdown.  
  
(Katie smiles and turns to him.)  
  
BROWN: So? Why don't you?  
  
McKAY: Now? Do I wanna propose now?  
  
BROWN (smiling down at him): Don't you wanna hear my answer?  
  
(Rodney lays his head back down again despairingly.)  
  
McKAY: Well, it doesn't really matter any more, does it?  
  
BROWN: How can you say that?  
  
McKAY: Oh, I dunno – maybe because we're moments away from our deaths.  
  
BROWN (angrily): Don't _talk_ like that. There's still a chance. Someone could
come through this door and ...  
  
McKAY (lifting his head): Katie, please. Enough already. Look, much as I'd
love to believe that someone's gonna swoop in and save the day, the fact that
no-one _has_ tells me it's probably not gonna happen. I'm sorry if that's
bleak and horrible and fatalistic but there it is.  
  
(Grimacing, he lays his head down again. Katie sighs sadly.)  
  
  
Out in the corridors, Sam is trying to tweak the crystals in a wall panel
while Lorne tugs at the doors, but to no avail. Sighing, they turn back to the
others.  
  
ZELENKA: Well, what are we going to do now?  
  
LORNE: Well, what _can_ we do?  
  
SHEPPARD: Does this vent go to the Power Room?  
  
(They look where he's looking. There's a vent high up on the wall.)  
  
ZELENKA: Yes, yes. I believe it leads to the tower's main ventilation flue.  
  
CARTER: Well, that system's shut down. Those vents'll be closed off.  
  
TECHNICIAN: Not any more. We were able to get it back online in most of the
tower just before the computers went down.  
  
(John climbs up onto a chair and prises the cover of the vent off. Stepping up
onto the back of the chair, he peers inside, then holds out a hand to Lorne
who takes a torch out of his vest and hands it to him. Taking it, John shines
it along the shaft.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, it looks clear. It's gonna be a tight squeeze, though –
there's no way I can move in here.  
  
CARTER: I'll do it.  
  
ZELENKA: No. _I'll_ do it.  
  
CARTER: Are you sure?  
  
ZELENKA: Yes. I'm small enough. I can crawl through there. I'll have the power
off in no time.  
  
CARTER: All right.  
  
SHEPPARD: Atta boy.  
  
(He steps down and hands the torch to Radek who puts the end in his mouth,
steps onto the chair and hauls himself up to the opening. He looks into the
shaft, then glances back at Sam for a moment. She nods to him encouragingly.)  
  
LORNE: Ready?  
  
ZELENKA: Yeah.  
  
(John and Lorne take hold of his feet and boost him up, carefully pushing him
into the opening. He starts to drag himself forward.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon and Jennifer are sitting side by side on the floor with their
backs against one of the beds. Ronon smiles.  
  
DEX: I had you wrong.  
  
(Jennifer looks inquiringly at him. He smiles at her.)  
  
DEX: When you first came here, I thought you were weak – that you didn't
belong.  
  
KELLER (shaking her head and looking away): It's the story of my life. (She
pauses for a while, then continues.) Growing up, I skipped through grades and
graduated at fifteen. Got my Bachelor's Degree before I was even old enough to
vote. I missed out on a lot of things – any kind of social event, you know,
parties and dances. (She smiles ruefully.) I don't ever remember a time in my
life where I belonged.  
  
DEX: Yeah, well, blowing up that tank – you really showed yourself.  
  
(She smiles at him.)  
  
KELLER: But it didn't work.  
  
DEX: That's not the point.  
  
(They gaze at each other.)  
  
  
VENTILATION FLUE. Dragging himself along the narrow shaft, Radek mutters to
himself.  
  
ZELENKA: “I'll have the power off in no time.” (In Czech) Jesus, that's
unbelievable. I'm _such_ a moron. She'll think I'm a total idiot.  
  
(He reaches a junction and initially goes straight on, then shuffles backwards
and shines his torch down the side turning.)  
  
ZELENKA (in Czech): Well, what else should I do? No, not this again ...  
  
(Still muttering to himself, he turns and wriggles along that shaft.)  
  
ZELENKA (in Czech): Don't fit here ... Ugh, this place stinks!  
  
(After a while he reaches another junction, but it's going to be difficult to
go in any direction because the floor is open and there's a long drop down a
deep shaft. He stares down it.)  
  
ZELENKA (in Czech): Jesus Maria!  
  
(He shines his torch along the left and right turnings, then groans.)  
  
ZELENKA (pathetically in Czech): Oh, tell me this is not happening!  
  
(Taking a deep breath, he wriggles forward and, wailing plaintively, plunges
downwards.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon shuffles sideways across the floor towards Jennifer. Smiling,
she leans sideways and puts her head on his shoulder.  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. As Rodney continues to lie on his back on the floor, Katie sits on
a stool nearby and watches him. His eyes are closed and, oblivious to his
girlfriend's needs, he appears to be preparing himself for death.  
  
  
CORRIDORS. John, Sam and Lorne gaze up at the opening to the ventilator shaft.  
  
SHEPPARD: Come on, Radek.  
  
CARTER: He'll make it.  
  
(John and Lorne look round at her a little doubtfully but she looks confident
until they look away again, then her own doubt creeps into her face.)  
  
  
INFIRMARY. Ronon looks down at Jennifer's head leaning against his shoulder.
He gently puts his face into her hair and breathes in deeply. She lifts her
head and smiles at him.  
  
  
MAIN POWER ROOM. An alarm is beeping. With a scream, Radek plummets headfirst
through a vent in the ceiling and crashes to the floor. Groaning, he stumbles
to his feet, shaking his right wrist in pain. Bending down, he picks up his
glasses which had fallen off, puts them on, looks around the room and then,
still shaking his wrist, goes across to the power levers on the wall and
starts to pull them down one by one.  
  
  
In the Infirmary, Ronon and Jennifer slowly lean towards each other. Just
before their lips meet, all the lights go off. They pull away from each other
and look up in surprise.  
  
  
In the Power Room, Radek, still shaking his wrist in pain, continues to pull
down the power levers. In the corridor, John, Sam and Lorne look up as the
lights go off. Sam smiles.  
  
CARTER: He did it!  
  
(Lorne laughs as John blows out a relieved breath.)  
  
(In the Power Room, Radek starts pushing all the levers back up again,
reinstating the power.)  
  
(In the Infirmary, as Ronon and Jennifer lean towards each other again, the
lights come back on again. They look round as the doors slide open.)  
  
(In the corridor, the doors slide open behind Sam and the others.)  
  
(In Rodney's lab, the bulkhead wall slides up. Teyla smiles in delight and
heads for the stairs.)  
  
(In the Botany lab, Rodney scrambles to his feet as the doors slide open.)  
  
McKAY: Oh my God! Well, they found a cure or figured out how to override the
programme! I don't believe it! We're gonna make it!  
  
(He turns and hugs Katie, chuckling as she laughs.)  
  
McKAY: We're not gonna die!  
  
(He pulls back, then hesitates as he looks at her holding the ring box. She
looks down at the box, then folds her arms to hide it. Rodney looks awkward.)  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. MESS HALL. John, Teyla and Ronon are sitting at a table with
Radek.  
  
TEYLA: You crawled the entire way there in those tiny vents?  
  
DEX: I'm surprised he even fit in there.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, he fit, all right. There's _plenty_ of room.  
  
ZELENKA: Well, not _plenty_.  
  
SHEPPARD: You should have seen him. He looked like one of those little
hamsters in one of those ...  
  
ZELENKA: Yes, yes, yes, yes. Listen, the important thing is I was able to make
it and shut off the power in time.  
  
(Ronon looks at Teyla.)  
  
DEX: Hey, d'you hear? McKay thought it was a real outbreak. He even started
getting sick! Thought he was, um ...  
  
(He trails off and takes his feet off the chair beside him as Jennifer
approaches, smiling.)  
  
DEX: Hey, uh ...  
  
KELLER (smiling at all of them): Hi. Mind if I join you?  
  
SHEPPARD: Sure, go ahead.  
  
(Glancing at Ronon significantly, Jennifer puts her tray down and sits down
beside him. Ronon looks awkward, then frowns at John and Teyla who are both
looking at him curiously, aware that something is going on.)  
  
DEX (belligerently): What?  
  
SHEPPARD (shrugging): Nothin'.  
  
(Sam comes over to the table.)  
  
CARTER: Well, it's been several hours now and there is no indication that
anyone out there's picked up our alert beacon. I think we're in the clear.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we should keep an eye out, just in case.  
  
(Sam looks down at Radek.)  
  
CARTER: Great work, Radek. (She pats him on the shoulder.) Everyone on this
base owes you a debt of gratitude.  
  
ZELENKA (smiling up at her): Oh, thank you.  
  
(John turns to Teyla.)  
  
SHEPPARD: McKay would _love_ this.  
  
(Jennifer laughs and looks at Ronon again.)  
  
  
BOTANY LAB. Rodney walks in.  
  
McKAY: Katie?  
  
(Katie wheels a trolley of plants in from the next room.)  
  
BROWN: Hullo. Rodney. I see you're feeling better.  
  
McKAY (awkwardly): Uh, yes. I, uh, well, I mean, it was probably just, you
know, an allergic thing. I'm fine.  
  
BROWN: And the quarantine? Is it true there was no outbreak?  
  
McKAY: Uh, no. It was a malfunction. Uh, a planetary anomaly, um, an
ionospheric disturbance. I've actually recalibrated the system so it'll take
into effect future activity, so we should be fine.  
  
BROWN: Someone said it was Doctor Zelenka that finally turned off the self
destruct?  
  
McKAY: Technically, yes, but it was actually more of a group effort. But
that's not why I came here. I, um ... Here's the thing. Over the last year and
a half, I have become aware that I have certain ... I don't wanna use the word
“flaws” ... uh, “shortcomings”, perhaps? For example, on occasion I can be
negative ... and demanding and-and-and a tad arrogant, but I'm also finding
that just being aware of your, uh, shortcomings is just the first minute step
on the road to betterment, and the real trick seems to be to actually _do_
something about it.  
  
BROWN (smiling): I know. It's difficult.  
  
McKAY: The point is, I came here earlier today to propose marriage to you, but
after what happened, I realise that I may have been rushing things. I just
don't think I'm ready for this.  
  
BROWN: I know.  
  
McKAY: You do?  
  
BROWN (nodding): I don't think I'm ready either.  
  
McKAY: Oh. OK. That's good. (He briefly laughs nervously.) It's not that my
feelings have changed or diminished ...  
  
BROWN: No. No, of course not.  
  
McKAY: It's just, I mean ... (He sighs.) If we got married now, I would make
your life miserable, and you are _far_ too good a person for that.  
  
BROWN (softly): Don't be so hard on yourself.  
  
(Rodney smiles.)  
  
McKAY: Yeah. Easier said than done, right?  
  
(Katie smiles briefly, then her face becomes sad. Rodney gazes at her.)  
  
McKAY: OK. So – rain check on lunch?  
  
BROWN (smiling): Absolutely.  
  
McKAY (smiling): All right.  
  
(He turns to walk away.)  
  
BROWN: Rodney?  
  
McKAY (turning back to her): Hmm?  
  
(She looks at him for a moment.)  
  
BROWN: Bye.  
  
McKAY: Right. (He waves to her.) Bye.  
  
(He turns and walks to the other side of the lab doors, then turns back to
look at her again. She gazes at him as the doors close between them. Rodney
turns, his face sad, and walks away.)

