OFFWORLD PLANET. In the castle of a settlement, John Sheppard and Rodney McKay
are standing with two beautiful young women dressed in long elaborate gowns.
The four of them are holding glass goblets of red wine and they all clink them
together in a toast.  
  
FLORA: And to another fine year of trading.  
  
McKAY: Hear, hear!  
  
FLORA: Truly, the medical supplies you have given to us over the past several
years have made an immeasurable difference to our people.  
  
MARDOLA: Not to mention your warning last harvest that the Wraith were nearby.
You saved many lives.  
  
SHEPPARD (modestly): Well, uh, you know.  
  
McKAY: My favourite missions are when we come here to do our trading – and
I've said that, I can prove it. I'm not just saying that.  
  
SHEPPARD: You don't need to prove it. (He puts his glass onto a nearby table.)
Uh, you know, actually, we've gotta get going.  
  
MARDOLA: So soon?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, so soon?  
  
FLORA: We were hoping that you could stay.  
  
(She smiles at the men coyly. Rodney's eyes widen.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well ... I guess we could stay a little longer.  
  
FLORA: I hate to ... (She pauses for a moment, then shakes her head.) No,
never mind.  
  
McKAY: What is it?  
  
FLORA: Well, I wouldn't dream of imposing. You've been so generous to our
people already.  
  
SHEPPARD: What's the problem?  
  
FLORA: Our sister. She is in great need of your help.  
  
McKAY: I didn't even know you gals _had_ a sister.  
  
FLORA: We do indeed.  
  
McKAY: And I imagine she's as, uh, beautiful as you two?  
  
FLORA: Even more so.  
  
(John and Rodney smile.)  
  
FLORA: And she is in great need of guidance.  
  
McKAY: Guidance – _that_ I can do.  
  
FLORA: You are most generous. Excuse us for one moment. I'll get her.  
  
(She leaves the room, followed by Mardola. Rodney turns to John.)  
  
McKAY: Dibs.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?!  
  
McKAY: I'm calling dibs on the third sister.  
  
SHEPPARD: You can't call dibs!  
  
McKAY: Look, we both know that Flora and Mardola have been suckered in by the
whole cliché heroic thing you've got going, but maybe this other sister –
maybe her taste in men will run more to the ...  
  
SHEPPARD: ... geeky?  
  
McKAY: I was gonna say "cerebral" but, um ... who knows, maybe we'll hit it
off.  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't need _your_ love life screwing up _our_ trade relations.  
  
McKAY: I'll try not to break her heart, but no promises.  
  
(Hearing approaching footsteps, he takes a large swig from his wine and puts
the glass onto the table. Flora walks in, addressing her, as yet, unseen
sister.)  
  
FLORA: These are the men I was telling you about.  
  
(She smiles at the boys.)  
  
FLORA: Gentlemen, this is our sister, Harmony.  
  
(A thirteen year old girl walks into the room with Mardola and smiles at the
boys. Rodney's smile fades.)  
  
McKAY: Super(!)  
  
  
OPENING TITLES. Resume.  
  
  
FLORA: As you know, our mother and Queen passed at the beginning of this lunar
cycle. A secret, sacred ceremony was held to determine which of her three
daughters would succeed her. It was determined that Harmony shall be the new
Queen.  
  
SHEPPARD: Really? Wow. (To Harmony) Well, congrats.  
  
(Harmony smiles at him.)  
  
FLORA: Before she is crowned, all future Queens must perform a time-honoured
rite of passage.  
  
MARDOLA (pointedly, to Flora): A rite of passage normally performed _alone_.  
  
FLORA: It is not written one way or another.  
  
(Mardola opens her mouth, then decides against it. Flora turns back to the
boys.)  
  
FLORA: And Harmony is so young and it concerns me greatly.  
  
HARMONY: I can do it.  
  
FLORA (turning to her): You are very brave, but the trail is difficult. It
would bring me great comfort to know that you had someone looking out for you.  
  
SHEPPARD: What kind of rite of passage are we talkin' about here?  
  
MARDOLA: Deep in the forest lies the ruins of the great Temple of Larris.
Every Queen must take a pilgrimage before the end of the first lunar cycle of
their selection. Once there, she must meditate on the journey that lies ahead
of her and pray to be endowed with the knowledge and power to govern her
people.  
  
SHEPPARD: _How_ deep in the forest?  
  
FLORA: No more than a day's trek.  
  
McKAY: I see. Yes – no – I mean, we are very honoured, but, um, why don't you
just have a couple of your _own_ guards escort her?  
  
FLORA: Although it is not written so, our people will expect their new Queen
to have completed the journey on her own.  
  
SHEPPARD: So you don't want her to be alone but you don't want anyone to know
she's getting help.  
  
FLORA: Precisely.  
  
SHEPPARD: Right. (He grimaces.) Love to lend a hand but ...  
  
(Flora walks closer, turning the full power of her charm on him.)  
  
FLORA: John. Our peoples have enjoyed such a fruitful alliance.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah ...  
  
FLORA: One that has greatly benefited both parties.  
  
SHEPPARD: Right ...  
  
FLORA: I'd hate to think that one of us would put that in jeopardy over a
simple day's walk in the forest.  
  
(John struggles to think of a good excuse, while Flora to continues to smile
appealingly at him. He glances at Rodney for help but then gives in.)  
  
SHEPPARD: When do we leave?  
  
(Rodney sighs. Harmony smiles in delight.)  
  
  
LATER. Harmony has changed into more appropriate clothing for a trek through
the forest, and she and the boys are walking across wetlands towards the
forest.  
  
HARMONY: I must confess: I'm quite looking forward to this. I rarely get to
leave the confines of the castle, although I've had much training in forest
survival.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, you have, have you?  
  
HARMONY: Oh yes. I have completed three sessions with Nolar Lumsbrik. He is
one of the greatest hunters amongst my people.  
  
SHEPPARD: Three whole sessions, huh?!  
  
McKAY (sarcastically): With _the_ Nolar Lumsbrik!  
  
HARMONY: They were all I needed. I am a quick learner.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'll bet you are!  
  
HARMONY: Tell me: which one of you is the superior officer?  
  
McKAY: You mean, who outranks who?  
  
HARMONY: Yes.  
  
McKAY: I'm a civilian; I don't have a rank, but basically we're equals.  
  
SHEPPARD: Technically I'm in charge.  
  
HARMONY: I thought so. You have all the makings of an excellent leader, John.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, thank you!  
  
  
FOREST. As the group enters the forest, Rodney finishes off the last of his
power bar. He looks at John.  
  
McKAY: You gonna eat your power bar?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yes, Rodney. Told you – shouldn't have eaten yours so early in the
day.  
  
McKAY: I'm starving! Usually Flora feeds us some sort of food when we visit.
Come on – you hardly ever eat yours!  
  
SHEPPARD: No, Rodney!  
  
McKAY: Well, will you give it to me later when you decide you're not gonna eat
it?  
  
HARMONY (to John): You allow him to question you so incessantly?  
  
SHEPPARD: I guess I'm just used to it by now.  
  
HARMONY: Would it not be easier to beat him?  
  
McKAY: We don't beat people where we come from.  
  
HARMONY: Why not?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we find it's not very effective in the long run ...
unfortunately.  
  
HARMONY: Really? You are a truly gentle leader, John. I admire that.  
  
SHEPPARD: Thank you, Harmony!  
  
(They have reached a ravine overlooking a river. The uprights for a bridge
stand at the edge of the ravine but the bridge itself is not there. John
consults a scroll he has been given.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Isn't there supposed to be a rope bridge here?  
  
McKAY: Well, maybe you're reading the map wrong.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, I think it's pretty straightforward.  
  
(He peers over the edge of the cliff.)  
  
SHEPPARD: How old _is_ this map?  
  
HARMONY: It has been passed down from too many generations to know for sure.  
  
SHEPPARD: OK. Guess _that_ bridge doesn't exist.  
  
(He rolls up the scroll and puts it into his vest. Turning back to the others,
he unclips his backpack and puts it down.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You two stay put. I'm gonna try to find a safe way across the river.  
  
(Rodney makes incoherent noises, unhappy about being left alone with Harmony.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Don't worry – I'll be right back.  
  
(He heads off into the forest while Rodney makes vague and pointless "don't
leave me here with _her_!" gestures behind his back. Harmony turns to look at
him. Rodney lowers his hand and smiles awkwardly at her, then turns and walks
a few paces away. Harmony promptly goes over to John's backpack and starts
rummaging through it. Rodney finds a fallen tree trunk to sit on, then stares
at Harmony as she approaches.)  
  
McKAY: Where'd you find that?!  
  
HARMONY (through a mouthful of food): John's bag.  
  
(She walks over with the already opened power bar in her hand and sits down on
the trunk beside him.)  
  
McKAY: But, it's not yours!  
  
HARMONY (taking another bite): I'm hungry.  
  
McKAY: Well, you can't just take it like that!  
  
HARMONY: When I'm hungry, I eat.  
  
McKAY: What's gonna happen when Sheppard finds out?  
  
HARMONY: Well, he's not _going_ to now, is he?  
  
McKAY: Oh yes he is, ‘cause _I'm_ gonna tell him.  
  
HARMONY (looking at him severely): I wouldn't do that if I were you.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, or what?  
  
HARMONY: I'm the Queen.  
  
McKAY: Not _yet_ you're not, little sister.  
  
HARMONY: Trust me, you don't wanna be on my bad side.  
  
McKAY: Right(!) And what are you gonna do? You gonna have me beaten?!  
  
(Harmony narrows her eyes at him. Rodney looks nervous. She takes another bite
of the bar.)  
  
McKAY: All right, Princess. (He stands up and holds his hand out to her.) Just
hand it over.  
  
(She hands him the wrapper, which by now is empty.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, see, _now_ you're in trouble. You just wait ‘til Sheppard gets back
here, ‘cause he's gonna ...  
  
(John rejoins them.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, I think I've found a place for us to ...  
  
(He trails off as he sees Rodney holding the empty wrapper.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Is that my power bar?  
  
McKAY (pointing to Harmony): She stole it.  
  
HARMONY (standing up indignantly): I did not!  
  
McKAY: Oh, what?! You so _did_! Tell him!  
  
HARMONY (to John): I would _never_ do such a thing!  
  
McKAY (to John): The second you were gone she went into your bag!  
  
HARMONY: You are a liar! You are a lying liar!  
  
McKAY: Oh, please! (To John) Who are you gonna believe?  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, if she stole it, Rodney, how come _you've_ got the wrapper?  
  
McKAY: Well, because I was trying to take it back from her, and then she wolfs
it down and hands me the wrapper!  
  
SHEPPARD: Really?!  
  
(Rodney turns to Harmony, furious.)  
  
McKAY: OK, you'd better come clean, brat.  
  
(Harmony stares at him, wide-eyed, then her face crumples and she starts to
cry. She buries her face in her hands and sobs, then looks at John and holds
out her arms to him. Reluctantly, John walks towards her and she wraps her
arms around him and continues to grizzle.)  
  
SHEPPARD: It's OK, sweetie. Sometimes he makes _me_ cry, too.  
  
(Unseen by John, Harmony stops pretending to cry, looks at Rodney and holds up
a threatening fist to him, then goes back to whimpering for John's benefit. He
grimaces.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, we need to get going here.  
  
(He pulls himself away from her.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, I've found a path.  
  
(He starts to walk away.)  
  
HARMONY (tearfully): Can I navigate from the map?  
  
SHEPPARD (over his shoulder): Sure, soon as we get back on the path.  
  
(Behind him, Rodney turns and glares at Harmony. She smiles at him smugly and
follows John.)  
  
  
LATER. Harmony is leading the other two along a narrow track. She is
consulting the map but apparently isn't sure which way to go.  
  
HARMONY (hesitantly): Now ... we go ...  
  
SHEPPARD (without even looking at the map): Right.  
  
HARMONY: Correct.  
  
(She turns right onto another track and the boys follow her. They stop as they
hear an eerie whooshing sound. John and Rodney raise their rifles and look in
all directions.)  
  
McKAY: What was that?  
  
HARMONY: That's probably the Beast.  
  
McKAY: Sorry, the what, now?  
  
HARMONY: The Beast – the protector of the ruins of Larris. Did Flora not tell
you of it?  
  
McKAY (sarcastically): I guess she forgot to mention it.  
  
HARMONY: Don't worry.  
  
(She takes out a small penknife and opens out a blade.)  
  
SHEPPARD: When you say "Beast", I'm assuming that's a figure of speech, right?  
  
HARMONY: Oh, no. It's a _beast_, all right. While no-one is quite certain what
it looks like, those who have cast their eyes upon it have quickly perished.  
  
(Rodney cynically gestures at her holding up her small blade.)  
  
McKAY: But your little knife will protect us.  
  
HARMONY: I'm the Queen. It will not harm me.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we may not get the chance to tell the Beast that.  
  
HARMONY (snapping the blade back into the penknife): It will know.  
  
(She turns and continues along the path. Rodney trots after her.)  
  
McKAY: Listen: why don't we just _tell_ your sisters we made it as far as the
ruins? We don't actually have to _make_ it there. I mean, they'd never have to
know the difference.  
  
HARMONY: _I_ would know.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, but you're gonna be Queen, so who cares, right?  
  
HARMONY: _I_ care. My people care.  
  
McKAY: Listen ...  
  
HARMONY: Perhaps it would be best if you stopped speaking. Your voice hurts my
ears.  
  
McKAY: Well, that Beast can hurt my whole body, OK, so I'm sorry, but this is
_not_ what we signed up for. Sheppard, back me up here.  
  
(They both turn back to look at John, only to find that he's not there.)  
  
McKAY (nervously): Sheppard? John?  
  
(Harmony starts to open out her knife again.)  
  
HARMONY: According to legend, the Beast attacks silently.  
  
McKAY: But I thought you said the Beast would know you were the Queen.  
  
HARMONY: Well, it didn't attack _me_.  
  
(Rodney activates his headset radio.)  
  
McKAY: John? John, are you there?  
  
(There's no reply.)  
  
HARMONY: It _is_ strange, though. The Beast is supposed to only attack the
enemies of the throne. If it was going to kill anyone, it _should_ have killed
_you_.  
  
McKAY: I'm not an enemy to the throne! I'm not! I'm here to protect you!  
  
MALE VOICE: Don't move.  
  
(As the sound of guns cocking can be heard and men appear out of the trees
aiming pistols at them, Rodney raises his hands. Harmony turns and steps back
closer to him, then glares at him over her shoulder.)  
  
HARMONY: So far, I'm not impressed.  
  
(Rodney looks around cautiously and sees three Genii solders standing behind
him, aiming their pistols at him and Harmony.)  
  
SOLDIER: Drop your weapon.  
  
(Slowly, Rodney unclips his rifle from his vest and, turning towards the
soldiers, carefully puts it on the ground. The soldier takes out a radio from
his pocket and speaks into it.)  
  
SOLDIER: We have her. Map grid eleven, in the small clearing.  
  
VOICE (over the radio): On our way.  
  
(Putting the radio away, the soldier looks at Rodney while Harmony peers
around from behind his back.)  
  
SOLDIER: Hand her over.  
  
McKAY: You're Genii.  
  
SOLDIER: Step aside and hand her over.  
  
McKAY: This is obviously some sort of huge misunderstanding, all right? I am
Doctor Rodney McKay. I'm a close personal friend of Ladon Radim ...  
  
(The soldiers don't react in any way to this news.)  
  
McKAY: ... you know, your leader? I'm your greatest ally! You don't know who I
am? I'm the genius scientist, the friend of John Sheppard. I gave you the
bomb! ... No? Nothing? What do they teach you in Genii school?!  
  
SOLDIER: Hand her over, right now.  
  
McKAY: OK, let's just talk about this.  
  
SOLDIER: I'm growing impatient. (He walks closer.) Our quarrel is not with
you. Once you hand her over, you're free to go.  
  
McKAY: Really?  
  
SOLDIER: Yes.  
  
(Rodney looks thoughtful.)  
  
McKAY: Hmm!  
  
(He looks down at Harmony. She stares at him indignantly.)  
  
HARMONY: You wouldn't! You took a sacred oath to protect me!  
  
McKAY: Naah, I don't remember doing that.  
  
SOLDIER: I'm going to count to three.  
  
(He pauses dramatically. Rodney stares at him nervously as Harmony looks
terrified.)  
  
SOLDIER: One ...  
  
(Shots ring out from the forest. Bullets impact the three Genii and they drop
as Rodney cowers and Harmony ducks behind his back. John comes out from behind
a tree, aiming his rifle down at the soldiers.)  
  
McKAY (high-pitched with indignation): Where have you been?!  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, my spidey-senses felt an ambush coming on.  
  
McKAY: Wh... and you couldn't have mentioned it?!  
  
SHEPPARD: Not without tipping them off, no.  
  
McKAY: Well, what _took_ you so long?! We were just about to get ...  
  
SHEPPARD: I had to take up position so I could shoot all three at once. (He
looks at Harmony.) Are you OK?  
  
HARMONY: No. (She hesitates for a moment, then regains her regal attitude.)
No, I most certainly am not. (She points at Rodney.) This one was going to
hand me over to those men!  
  
McKAY (to John): No I wasn't.  
  
(Harmony turns to him.)  
  
HARMONY: I saw it in your eyes. You were considering it to save your own
worthless, cowardly hide.  
  
McKAY: I was keeping them talking, you know? I was buying us time – a little
thing called strategy. Obviously you're too young to know anything about it.  
  
HARMONY: Oh, I understand strategy. In fact, I'm forming one right now. The
second we return to the castle, I will instruct my guards to ...  
  
SHEPPARD (interrupting): All right. Plenty of time to come up with punishments
along the way.  
  
(He starts to walk away, Rodney following him. Harmony turns and calls after
him.)  
  
HARMONY: But John!  
  
SHEPPARD: Thumb screws. D'you like them?  
  
HARMONY (smiling and starting to follow him): Yes! Thumb screws are good.  
  
SHEPPARD: We'd better find some cover. The back-up he called's gonna be here
any minute.  
  
  
LATER. John finds an area where several trees have fallen and formed a natural
hide.  
  
SHEPPARD: All right. This'll work.  
  
McKAY: Those were Genii.  
  
SHEPPARD: I picked up on that, Rodney, thanks.  
  
(They go inside and settle down, John and Rodney looking out at the
surrounding forest.)  
  
McKAY: Yeah, so what are the Genii doing here? And why do they wanna kill her
... I mean, aside from the obvious reasons?  
  
SHEPPARD: Harmony?  
  
HARMONY: I don't know. I don't like the Genii.  
  
McKAY: But you know who they are. What are you, trading partners?  
  
HARMONY: Not any more.  
  
McKAY: But you were.  
  
HARMONY: Yes – but they cheated my mother on many trades. She banished them
from our land.  
  
McKAY: What about you, huh? When you're Queen, are you gonna start trade back
up?  
  
HARMONY: No! Absolutely not!  
  
SHEPPARD: Maybe somebody in the Royal Court's a little more willing to play
ball – you know, once the path is cleared.  
  
HARMONY: If I were to die, my sister would succeed me. But if the Genii think
that she would be more willing to trade than me, they are sadly mistaken.  
  
McKAY (to John): You really believe that Ladon would give the marching orders
to kill a little girl – even _this_ one?  
  
SHEPPARD: _I_ don't know how these people work. Maybe he told someone to fix
the problem and this is what they came up with.  
  
McKAY: It's creative!  
  
SHEPPARD: Knowing why they're here really doesn't help us out. All right – I
need to get a take on how many are out there. You stay with her, OK?  
  
McKAY (sighing in a resigned way): Sure.  
  
SHEPPARD: All right. Stay here – and stay quiet.  
  
HARMONY: Of course, John. Thank you for taking care of us. (She smiles sweetly
at him.) I'm not sure what I would do if you weren't here.  
  
(John looks at her nervously for a moment.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hmm.  
  
(He heads off. Harmony's smile fades and she glowers at Rodney as he watches
John go.)  
  
HARMONY: Tell me something, Doctor. The place where you sleep at night – is it
guarded?  
  
(Rodney looks round at her.)  
  
McKAY: I know what you're trying to do and it's not gonna work, OK? I'm not
scared of you. You're just a kid – a bratty little kid. I don't care less that
you're gonna be Queen. In fact, nothing could impress me less, so why don't
you just cool it with the bad seed act and just go back to ignoring me?  
  
(He looks away.)  
  
HARMONY: Surely they can't guard you _all_ the time?  
  
(Rodney looks round at her again, his expression now a little nervous. She
smiles and blinks at him.)  
  
  
RIVER. About half a dozen Genii are searching along the riverbank. A voice
comes over their radios.  
  
VOICE: Squad three, take up position on the ridge. Squad four, move to map
grid nine.  
  
SOLDIER: Acknowledged.  
  
(Nearby, John is hidden and watching them.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Wonderful(!)  
  
(He heads off again.)  
  
  
HIDE. Rodney is becoming increasingly uncomfortable as Harmony continues to
glare at him.  
  
McKAY: Stop it. What are you doing?  
  
HARMONY: I'm burning your face into my memory.  
  
McKAY: You ...?  
  
HARMONY: This way, I can give the bounty hunters an extremely accurate
description of you.  
  
McKAY: All right, your Highness. I have had just about enough out of you with
this whole ...  
  
(John approaches, speaking in a loud whisper.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I thought I said keep talking to the minimum!  
  
McKAY: I was ... She was ...  
  
(Angrily, he trails off.)  
  
HARMONY: How many Genii are out there, John?  
  
SHEPPARD: If I had to guess, I'd say _all_ of ‘em.  
  
McKAY: What, so a lot of them?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yes, Rodney, a lot.  
  
HARMONY: This will make the pilgrimage most difficult.  
  
SHEPPARD: That's funny – I was thinking the same thing.  
  
(She moves closer to him.)  
  
HARMONY: I find we have much in common, John.  
  
(John glances toward her nervously as she smiles at him.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Mmm. Yeah. Anyway, I figure wait for nightfall and then head back to
the settlement.  
  
(Her smile fades.)  
  
HARMONY: Back to the settlement?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. Road trip's over.  
  
HARMONY: But that would make this journey a failure!  
  
SHEPPARD: You win some, you lose some. You wanna be Queen, you've gotta learn
how to cut your losses.  
  
HARMONY: But the lunar cycle is nearing its end. If I do not make it to the
ruins by tomorrow's sundown, I will forfeit the throne.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'm sure they'll make an exception.  
  
HARMONY: No. They cannot. It is our way.  
  
SHEPPARD (sighing): It's too dangerous to move forward.  
  
HARMONY: For _you_, perhaps.  
  
(John looks indignant and turns to her.)  
  
SHEPPARD: If it's too dangerous for me, it's _definitely_ too dangerous for
_you_! We're gonna wait for nightfall and then we're gonna head back to the
village. End of discussion.  
  
McKAY: Fat chance of that!  
  
HARMONY: It's not your decision to make. I'm the Queen.  
  
SHEPPARD: No! Not yet. And until you are, you're just a regular kid. _I_ call
the shots.  
  
(She stands up and folds her arms, glaring down at him.)  
  
HARMONY: Many would consider disobeying the Queen a treasonous act.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, I'm sure they wouldn't look too fondly on letting the Queen
get killed. We're heading _back_.  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. CASTLE. Someone knocks on the door of Mardola's bedroom. She opens
the door and finds a hooded man standing outside. He pulls his hood down and
comes inside.  
  
MARDOLA: You should _not_ be here.  
  
TORAN: I was careful. No-one saw me, don't worry.  
  
(He takes out a Genii radio and puts it down.)  
  
TORAN: We use this from now on to stay in contact.  
  
MARDOLA: Does that mean it's not over yet?  
  
TORAN: No. Her two guardians have complicated things greatly. They killed
three of my men.  
  
MARDOLA: Yes, well, they were an unforeseen complication. My apologies.  
  
TORAN: Your apologies do me little good.  
  
MARDOLA: We will increase your pay, don't worry. Three-fold.  
  
TORAN: Three-fold?  
  
MARDOLA: Triple the work, triple the pay.  
  
TORAN: Do you want us to kill them all?  
  
MARDOLA: If they survive, they'll come back and tell my sister that the Genii
were involved. Now, we can't have that, can we?  
  
(Toran bows to her and leaves.)  
  
  
FOREST. Harmony has lain down on the ground and is asleep. John is outside the
hide watching the surrounding area. Rodney comes out to join him.  
  
McKAY: Listen, I've been doing a little thinking.  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, you _have_, have you?  
  
McKAY: I've got a Wraith stunner in my backpack. She can't weigh more than
ninety pounds. I say we stun her and just carry her back.  
  
(John grimaces, then looks thoughtful.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hmm.  
  
(He looks at Rodney.)  
  
SHEPPARD: No, we can't stun a thirteen year old girl!  
  
McKAY: It's kind of dangerous out there! I mean, the forest is crawling with
Genii. Who knows when she could throw one of her fits?  
  
SHEPPARD: Naah, she'll be fine. She understands how dangerous this situation
is. I talked to her.  
  
McKAY: I'm sure you did, but she's thirteen, she's unreasonable – among many
other awful attributes.  
  
SHEPPARD: You know, they say you dislike the things in others that you in fact
dislike about yourself.  
  
McKAY: So what?  
  
SHEPPARD: I'm just sayin'.  
  
McKAY: We are _nothing_ alike!  
  
SHEPPARD: OK.  
  
McKAY: She is a stuck-up, know-it-all brat ...  
  
(He trails off and looks at John, who shoots him a "See?" glance.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, ha-ha-ha.  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, it's about as dark as it's gonna get. Let's wake her up
and get moving.  
  
(They turn back to the hide but Harmony is gone.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Oh, no!  
  
McKAY: Oh, that sneaky little ... I _told_ you we should have stunned her!  
  
  
LATER. John and Rodney are searching the forest.  
  
McKAY: I'm gonna kill her.  
  
SHEPPARD: You really need to work on your child skills.  
  
McKAY: We have been searching for her for over an hour. You know, we have had
not one but _two_ close encounters with the Genii, all so some useless spoiled
brat can make a meditation appointment?!  
  
SHEPPARD: More searching, less complaining.  
  
McKAY: Sorry. I'm hungry, and when I'm hungry I get cranky.  
  
SHEPPARD: And when you get cranky, you get hit.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, OK, OK.  
  
SHEPPARD: I wish Ronon was here.  
  
McKAY: You know, you said that out loud, right? I mean, I'm right here.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, it's nothing personal – it's just that he's a better tracker
than both of us combined.  
  
McKAY: Huh, that's true!  
  
(They continue on for a while.)  
  
McKAY: OK, I'm starting to hallucinate.  
  
SHEPPARD: Why, what do you see?  
  
McKAY: Not see, smell. I smell food, delicious fresh-cooked food: roast beef,
hamburgers, hot dogs, poke on a spit ...  
  
SHEPPARD: Chicken.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, sure, the more the merrier.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, I smell chicken.  
  
(They look around, then Rodney points to his nose.)  
  
McKAY: The nose that knows. Follow me.  
  
(He turns to the right and leads them further into the forest. After a while
they reach a narrow gully in a cliff.)  
  
McKAY: Found it! It's coming from down there.  
  
(They peer into the gully and see the flicker from a fire in the distance.)  
  
McKAY: Told you! You don't need Ronon while I'm here.  
  
SHEPPARD: Mmm-hmm.  
  
McKAY: What do you think? Genii camp?  
  
SHEPPARD: Give me the stunner.  
  
(Rodney reaches into his backpack and pulls out the stunner pistol, handing it
to John.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, stay behind me.  
  
(They cautiously progress forward. They enter a cave and head carefully
towards the small campfire built inside a circle of stones. It has what looks
like a chicken roasting on a wooden spit above it. John lowers his stunner as
he sees Harmony sitting beside the fire. He races towards the fire and starts
to kick it out.)  
  
HARMONY: John! How did you find me?  
  
SHEPPARD: We smelled your fire a mile away.  
  
HARMONY: That's OK. I was finished cooking anyway.  
  
McKAY: You ran away from us.  
  
HARMONY: You didn't give me any choice.  
  
SHEPPARD: We've been out there searching for over an hour. We almost were
caught twice.  
  
HARMONY: Yes, it's _very_ dangerous out there right now. That's why I decided
to seek refuge in this cave and make camp.  
  
McKAY (pointing to the fire): You made all of this?  
  
HARMONY: Yes! (She points to the roast.) And caught a loden bird. They're
quite delicious.  
  
McKAY: How?!  
  
(She snaps out the blade from her penknife and shows it to him.)  
  
McKAY: You made all this with _that_?  
  
HARMONY: I told you – I completed three sessions with Nolar Lumsbrik.  
  
McKAY: And they covered all that in three sessions?  
  
HARMONY: I am a quick learner. Do you not listen?  
  
(John and Rodney look at each other and sigh. Harmony looks at John,
concerned.)  
  
HARMONY: You're mad at me.  
  
SHEPPARD: Mmm.  
  
HARMONY (thoughtfully): Our first fight.  
  
(John's eyes widen.)  
  
HARMONY: I knew it would happen eventually.  
  
(John stares at Rodney, still wide-eyed.)  
  
HARMONY: We'll laugh about this one day.  
  
SHEPPARD: I'm sure we will, but we've gotta get moving.  
  
McKAY: Right after we've eaten the loden bird.  
  
(John glares at him.)  
  
McKAY: ... or not.  
  
(Just then, they hear the eerie whooshing sound again.)  
  
McKAY: That sounded very, very close. (He looks at Harmony.) Are we sure this
isn't the Beast's cave?  
  
HARMONY: You're so ignorant! The Beast doesn't live in caves. We should stay
here until the coast is clear.  
  
SHEPPARD: All right. Half hour, tops.  
  
(Rodney smiles and hunkers down beside Harmony as she takes the spit off the
fire.)  
  
HARMONY: Good. I'm hungry.  
  
(She starts to cut meat off the bird. Rodney rubs his hands in anticipation.)  
  
McKAY: OK!  
  
  
LATER. John is crouched in the entrance to the cave checking for any
approaching Genii. Harmony walks over to him and squats down beside him.  
  
HARMONY: I brought you the bird's heart.  
  
(She holds out her hand with a small charred piece of meat on it.)  
  
HARMONY: My people believe it brings you great luck once consumed.  
  
SHEPPARD: Thanks, but no thanks.  
  
HARMONY: You're sure?  
  
SHEPPARD: Pretty sure, yeah.  
  
HARMONY: Very well. (She pops it into her own mouth and starts to chew.) Are
you still mad at me?  
  
SHEPPARD: No, I'm over it.  
  
HARMONY: That's good. I don't like it when you're mad at me.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, then, don't give me reason to be mad.  
  
HARMONY: Very well.  
  
SHEPPARD: So, you're thirteen, huh?  
  
HARMONY: I will be fourteen in five lunar cycles.  
  
SHEPPARD: Right! Nervous about being Queen?  
  
HARMONY: No! Why would I be?  
  
SHEPPARD: It's a lot of responsibility.  
  
HARMONY: I know that.  
  
SHEPPARD: Gotta put the needs of your people before anything else, including
your own.  
  
HARMONY: Some of the time, yes.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, pretty much _all_ of the time.  
  
HARMONY: I'm sure I will strike a proper balance.  
  
SHEPPARD: Just remember, you're not Queen because of divine right. You're
Queen because they _allow_ you to be Queen. If you're mean to the people, they
may change their minds. Just remember that.  
  
HARMONY: You know much about leadership, John.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hard-learned lessons along the way.  
  
HARMONY: And _I_ know much about my people.  
  
SHEPPARD: I hope so!  
  
HARMONY: I think we would make a good team.  
  
SHEPPARD: Hmm?  
  
HARMONY: As Queen, I will one day need a King.  
  
(John looks away, his eyes wide, not liking the way the conversation is
going.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Um, listen, Harmony ...  
  
HARMONY: There's no need to answer now. I know such an offer must be
overwhelming. You shouldn't make your decision rashly.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, I _am_ pretty sure I know which way I'm leaning. You're a
great little lady – it's just, uh ...  
  
(The eerie whooshing sound comes again. As it continues, the sound of men
screaming can also be heard. John stands up and stares out into the forest as
the screams, punctuated by the sound of weapons fire, continue. Rodney runs
out to join him just as the sounds cease.)  
  
McKAY: What the hell was that?!  
  
SHEPPARD: The Genii just had a little run-in with the Beast. (He looks down at
Harmony.) All right, be a brave girl and stay here with McKay.  
  
McKAY: Hey-hey-hey-hey, how come _I_ always get stuck being the babysitter?!  
  
SHEPPARD: You wanna check out the Beast?  
  
McKAY: No. No, I'm good here.  
  
SHEPPARD: Thought so. Stay here.  
  
(He heads out into the forest. Rodney crouches down beside Harmony.)  
  
  
NIGHT TIME. CASTLE. Mardola picks up the Genii radio and activates it.  
  
MARDOLA: This is Mardola. I want an update. What's taking so long?  
  
(In the forest, Toran is walking with some of his soldiers.)  
  
TORAN: I have men all along the path to the ruins. They've gone another way.  
  
MARDOLA: Well, _obviously_. They're not idiots. You should be looking
everywhere _but_ the path to the ruins.  
  
TORAN: I _am_, but it's night and this forest is vastly dense. My men are
spread thin.  
  
MARDOLA: What if they make it back to the village? There's no way that I could
save relations between our two peoples then.  
  
TORAN: We've just lost contact with some of my men. We're heading to their
last known coordinates. Maybe we'll get lucky. Toran out.  
  
(He cuts off the radio. Mardola stares at her radio indignantly.)  
  
  
FOREST. Still crouched in the entrance to the cave, Rodney glances round
awkwardly at Harmony. She glares back at him.  
  
HARMONY: You're a doctor, right?  
  
McKAY: Yes, yes. I mean, I'm not a _medical_ doctor ...  
  
HARMONY: So you're a liar.  
  
McKAY (indignantly): No, I'm a ... (He sighs, deciding to discontinue arguing
with her.) What do you want?  
  
HARMONY: What does love feel like?  
  
McKAY (rolling his eyes): Oh boy!  
  
HARMONY: Because I think I'm in love with John.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, it wouldn't be the first time and I'm sure it won't be the
last.  
  
HARMONY: What does _that_ mean?  
  
McKAY: It means that a lot of people, particularly alien women, tend to fall
for John Sheppard's good looks and charm.  
  
HARMONY: Not like _me_, they don't.  
  
McKAY: He's a bit old for you, don't you think?  
  
HARMONY: I hadn't considered it.  
  
McKAY: Yeah, well, _he_ will, so don't get your hopes up.  
  
HARMONY: You're not going to try and influence him, are you?  
  
McKAY: I won't _need_ to, trust me.  
  
HARMONY: You don't like me very much, do you?  
  
(Rodney gazes ahead of him and fights back what he really wants to say.)  
  
McKAY: No, that's not true. I ... I don't _not_ like you.  
  
HARMONY: What does _that_ mean?  
  
McKAY: It means that you have a very annoying attitude but I'm willing to cut
you some slack because you're still just a child.  
  
HARMONY: Whereas if I were grown-up, my "annoying attitude" would be less
excusable?  
  
McKAY: That's right. An adult would, uh ...  
  
(He looks round at her. She smiles back smugly.)  
  
McKAY: Hey, _I_ don't have an attitude problem!  
  
HARMONY: And _I_ don't not like you.  
  
McKAY: ... Oh, well, that's sweet of you to say.  
  
HARMONY: So you promise not to get between John and me?  
  
McKAY: I promise. I'll give you this: you're a _lot_ more mature than the
women he usually falls for.  
  
HARMONY: Thank you, Doctor!  
  
(She stands up and goes back inside.)  
  
  
Out in the forest, John spots something and activates his headset.  
  
SHEPPARD (whispering): McKay.  
  
McKAY (over radio): What have you got?  
  
SHEPPARD (squatting down to look closely at what he has found): Two dead
Genii. It's not pretty. Multiple puncture wounds.  
  
McKAY (nervously): You mean, like teeth marks?  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't think so.  
  
McKAY (anxiously): So, so, what? Claws, talons, a very sharp beak?  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't know. It's not like anything I've ever seen before.  
  
(He hears rustling nearby, gets to his feet and hurries away. Moments later,
Toran and his squad arrive and see their fallen comrades.)  
  
SOLDIER: Over here.  
  
(He and Toran go over to inspect the bodies while the others check the
surrounding area.)  
  
SOLDIER: What kind of creature can do this?  
  
TORAN: It doesn't matter. We don't leave this forest until all three of them
are dead.  
  
(Hidden in the bushes nearby, John realises he's got a real problem on his
hands.)  
  
  
LATER. John has made his way back to the cave and meets Rodney at the
entrance. They go back inside.  
  
McKAY: What took you so long? I thought for sure we'd lost you.  
  
SHEPPARD: I hit the Genii – had to lie low until it was safe to move.  
  
McKAY: So what happened?  
  
SHEPPARD: I don't know. Whatever that Beast thing is, it's lethal.  
  
HARMONY: _I_ could have told you that.  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah. Also, the Genii have shoot to kill orders for all of us.  
  
McKAY: Oh, super.  
  
(John pulls Harmony to her feet.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, Princess, let's move.  
  
(He leads the others outside and aims his rifle down a pathway. Harmony
stops.)  
  
HARMONY: Wait.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
HARMONY: Where are you going?  
  
SHEPPARD: What does it look like? We're going back to the settlement.  
  
HARMONY: But we're so close to the ruins. And it's almost daybreak.  
  
SHEPPARD: The fact that it's almost daybreak is a _bad_ thing. We need the
cover of night.  
  
HARMONY: I can't come this far and just turn back. (She folds her arms
stubbornly.) I refuse.  
  
McKAY (looking at John while jerking a thumb towards the stunner in his own
backpack): You know, I still have the unner-stay.  
  
SHEPPARD: Harmony, the best thing you could do is go _that_ way.  
  
(He points in the direction of the settlement. Just then, the eerie whooshing
sound can be heard again out in the forest – in the direction that John wants
to go. He shudders.)  
  
SHEPPARD: That sounded a little weird.  
  
McKAY (nervously): Hating to agree with the child, but, uh ...  
  
(He points in the direction of the ruins. John walks over to Harmony and
reaches for the map scroll.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Gimme that.  
  
(He unrolls it and looks at it.)  
  
HARMONY: The Beast _will_ avoid the ruins. We'll be safe there.  
  
McKAY (to John): How far are they?  
  
SHEPPARD (still looking at the map): A half hour or so.  
  
McKAY: So, what do you say?  
  
SHEPPARD (handing the map back to Harmony): Well, it's better than running
into the Beast.  
  
(He heads off in the direction of the ruins. Harmony smiles in delight, and
she and Rodney follow him.)  
  
  
DAWN. The group climbs up a bank by the side of the river. When he reaches the
top of the rise, John gestures to the others to stay low.  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly): Hey!  
  
(They scramble for cover behind a log. At the bottom of the other side of the
rise, a Genii soldier stands looking at a tall column. Rodney opens his
backpack and starts rummaging in it while John looks down at the soldier.)  
  
SHEPPARD: I was afraid of this.  
  
HARMONY: That's sacred ground. How _dare_ he?  
  
(She stands up. John pulls her down again.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hey, hey, whoa, whoa, whoa! We'll handle this, all right?  
  
(Rodney pulls the Wraith stunner pistol from his backpack, shuffles into a
better position on his knees and, bracing his left hand on the log and
supporting his right hand with it while closing one eye, aims the pistol
towards the soldier.)  
  
McKAY: All right.  
  
SHEPPARD: _I'll_ do that.  
  
McKAY: I got it. It's OK.  
  
SHEPPARD: No, really, just, just ...  
  
McKAY (ignoring him): Steady. Come to papa. (He continues squinting one-eyed
towards his target, taking forever to get the man fully into his sights.)
Let's go.  
  
(He takes so long that finally John loses patience, snatches the pistol out of
his hands and, barely pausing to aim, fires it at the soldier. The blast hits
him dead centre in the back and the man drops. Harmony stands up. Again John
pulls her down.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Hey, hey.  
  
HARMONY: What?  
  
(As she looks round at him, a second soldier walks into view down in the
ruins, looking down at his fallen colleague. Unaware of this, Harmony glares
at John indignantly.)  
  
HARMONY: You've subdued him.  
  
(John aims the stunner and shoots the second soldier.)  
  
SHEPPARD: _Now_ we can go.  
  
(He stands up and heads down the rise, followed by Rodney. Harmony stands up
and smiles down at the ruins in delight for a moment, then chases after the
boys. Rodney gets his first proper sight of the ruins. The column that the
soldier was looking at appears to be metal rather than stone. In front of it
is a pedestal with a plain green panel on top of it.)  
  
McKAY: Oh, fascinating!  
  
SHEPPARD (disarming the unconscious guards): Ancient?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, obviously.  
  
(He takes out an Ancient scanner from his vest and activates it, then looks at
the column again.)  
  
McKAY: It's weird – this place seems strangely familiar.  
  
(As he walks over to look at the pedestal, we see that a tray of crystals has
been slid out of the side of the column. Harmony walks over to Rodney.)  
  
HARMONY: It's even more beautiful than I imagined.  
  
(Putting one hand to a pendant around her throat, she nudges Rodney off the
pedestal and steps onto it, putting her hand onto the panel. She closes her
eyes and concentrates. After a moment, she opens her eyes, looks down at the
pendant and frowns.)  
  
HARMONY: Something's wrong.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
HARMONY: It's not working.  
  
SHEPPARD: Shouldn't you be, like, silently meditating or something?  
  
(Harmony closes her eyes again and grasps her pendant firmly. After a moment
she opens her eyes in frustration.)  
  
HARMONY: My pendant – it's supposed to glow.  
  
(Rodney's eyes widen.)  
  
McKAY: Well, I'll be damned.  
  
(He takes his scanner over to Harmony and scans her pendant.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Let me guess.  
  
McKAY: Oh yeah! It's Ancient!  
  
HARMONY: It's the Pendant of Wairos. The Queen – and only the true Queen –
must return it to the ruins. Once here, it is to glow and imbue me with great
power.  
  
SHEPPARD: Your sisters kind of failed to mention that.  
  
HARMONY: It is one of our greatest secrets.  
  
(Rodney finally has a lightbulb moment.)  
  
McKAY: It's a testing ground.  
  
SHEPPARD: What?  
  
McKAY: I know what this place is. I've been reading about it. Hell, we've been
_looking_ for it for the past two years! I've seen the schematics!  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, share with the class.  
  
McKAY: Believe it or not, this place actually does control the Beast – _if_
the Beast is what I think it is.  
  
SHEPPARD: Which is?  
  
McKAY: Mini-drones, if I'm right – and you know you can usually take _that_ to
the bank. I mean, this planet must have been where the Ancients first
developed drone technology. It was their main testing ground!  
  
SHEPPARD: That would explain why the Genii looked like Swiss cheese. The mini-
drones went right through ‘em.  
  
McKAY: And that noise the Beast was making – it was more like an electric
swarm than a, than a growl.  
  
SHEPPARD: So the pendant is, uh ...  
  
McKAY: ... probably some sort of pass key. The Ancients weren't above
protecting their research, even from each other. You need more than just the
gene to activate and control the drones, otherwise ...  
  
(He takes Harmony's hand off the pedestal's panel and looks at it.)  
  
McKAY: Yes-yes-yes-yes, of course! It's in auto-protect mode! They're
patrolling the forest, taking out anybody without the gene. That's why they
stayed clear of us and went straight for the Genii. Look, the royal pain here
must have it as well.  
  
(Harmony looks at him indignantly.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, why isn't it working?  
  
McKAY (gesturing to the unconscious soldiers): Well, maybe because Genius over
there was messing with the crystal tray.  
  
SHEPPARD: Right. So?  
  
McKAY: Well, so give me a second to figure out how much damage he's done.  
  
(He goes back to the column and starts tweaking the crystals. John walks over
to Harmony who has put her hand back on the pedestal and is concentrating with
her eyes closed.)  
  
SHEPPARD: The machine's broken. That's why your pendant isn't glowing.  
  
HARMONY: It's got nothing to do with machines. If I'm worthy of being Queen,
the gods will bestow the power of pure light and make my pendant glow.  
  
(John looks round at Rodney.)  
  
McKAY: Well, who knows what kind of whacky rules they've imposed on it? I
mean, I suppose it's possible that once a generation, the key needs to be
reactivated here. Maybe it's the one thing that allows them to use the Ancient
tech they have back at the castle.  
  
(John turns back to Harmony.)  
  
SHEPPARD: It's complicated, but it _will_ light up. We just need to make some
repairs.  
  
HARMONY (sadly): You don't understand. I've failed. Maybe I'm not supposed to
be Queen. Maybe – maybe we've come all this way for nothing.  
  
SHEPPARD: Trust me. It'll glow.  
  
(Anguished, Harmony turns away from the pedestal and sits down on the step,
still clutching her pendant. John walks over to the Genii soldiers and kicks
them awake.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Wake up.  
  
(As they rouse, Rodney comes over to join him. John jerks his head to indicate
the column.)  
  
SHEPPARD: What did you do to this thing?  
  
SOLDIER: I'm not sure. I just rearranged the crystals.  
  
(His colleague, Heiron, looks at him.)  
  
HEIRON: Don't tell them a thing. They're gonna kill us one way or the other.  
  
(John looks at Rodney.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Can you get it to work?  
  
McKAY: Not quickly. I mean, I can come back with a Jumper and a small team and
get it working.  
  
(Sighing, John walks over to Harmony and kneels down beside her.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Listen, we're gonna head back.  
  
HARMONY: No! If I return with a darkened pendant, I won't be allowed to be ...  
  
SHEPPARD (interrupting): Yes, you _will_ be Queen, I promise you. It's just
busted.  
  
HARMONY: This isn't the type of thing where you get a second chance, John.
_Please._  
  
(John rolls his eyes.)  
  
HARMONY: I can do it. (She gets up and steps back onto the pedestal.) I just –
I just need to focus more.  
  
(She puts her hand on the panel, closes her eyes and, clutching her pendant,
begins to concentrate. Just then the Genii's radios activate. They both reach
for them but John hurries towards them, aiming his stunner at them.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Whoa. Easy does it.  
  
VOICE (over radio): Heiron, come in. Heiron, come in.  
  
(Heiron carefully lifts his radio out of his pocket and hands it to John.)  
  
McKAY: Look, if they don't respond, they're gonna come and investigate.  
  
(John lifts the radio to his mouth and activates it.)  
  
SHEPPARD (in a deep voice): Heiron here.  
  
VOICE (over radio): What's your status?  
  
SHEPPARD (deep voice): Good.  
  
VOICE (over radio): Elaborate.  
  
SHEPPARD (hesitating, then speaking in the deep voice again): _Real_ good.  
  
HEIRON (yelling): Help us!  
  
(John stuns him.)  
  
SOLDIER: Help us!  
  
(John stuns him too.)  
  
VOICE (over radio): Heiron!  
  
SHEPPARD (into the radio in his normal voice): Kinda busy, gotta go.  
  
(He deactivates the radio and looks at Rodney.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, it was worth a shot. (He gestures to the column.) You've gotta
get that thing working, fast.  
  
McKAY: Can't we just run for it?  
  
SHEPPARD: We're boxed in from all directions. Gotta get those mini-drones
working or ...  
  
McKAY: ... or we die.  
  
  
SHORTLY AFTERWARDS. Genii soldiers hurry through the forest towards the ruins.
At the ruins themselves, Rodney is working on the crystal tray.  
  
McKAY: You know, you're not exactly inspiring confidence.  
  
(He glances over to where John and Harmony have taken cover in a gap between
two walls. John is leaning over the top of the wall aiming his rifle out into
the forest.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah? How so?  
  
McKAY: You're hiding behind a foot of solid rock. How am I supposed to feel
out here with only a cool breeze between me and the Genii?  
  
SHEPPARD: You're more than welcome to come and get cover for yourself – as
soon as you're done with those repairs.  
  
McKAY: Do you have _any_ idea how many crystal placement combinations there
are?  
  
SHEPPARD: More than seven?  
  
McKAY: Try seven _thousand_.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, that's less than infinite.  
  
(Rodney tries another combination and checks his scanner. It beeps negatively.
He sighs in exasperation. John turns to Harmony.)  
  
SHEPPARD: All right, look. It's gonna get very, very noisy when the Genii get
here.  
  
HARMONY: Screaming?  
  
SHEPPARD: No. These guns – they make a lot of noise. It's very important that
you stay put and you keep your ears covered, OK?  
  
HARMONY: Shouldn't you give _me_ a gun instead?  
  
SHEPPARD (sternly): You're gonna stay put, cover your ears, and you're not
gonna move, OK?  
  
(She refuses to answer him. Just then Rodney tries another combination and the
tray lights up.)  
  
McKAY (cheerfully): Son of a bitch! I think I got it!  
  
(Instantly Harmony breaks cover and starts to run down towards the pedestal.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Harm... Harmony! What did I just say?!  
  
(As she continues to run down the slope, guns start to fire at her from the
ridge. Rodney cowers down beside the crystal tray. As John looks for something
to aim at, Rodney turns to run for cover and crashes into Harmony, knocking
her to the ground. The impact jolts his rifle out of his hand. He leans across
Harmony's prostrate body to reach for it.)  
  
(Toran and his colleagues break cover and make their way forward, firing all
the time. John returns fire, making them duck back behind any cover they can
find. Harmony raises her head and stares at Rodney. Waiting until he hears
John's rifle laying down cover fire, he pushes her to her feet.)  
  
McKAY: Go. Go, go, go, go!  
  
(The two of them run to join John behind the wall. Up on the ridge, Toran
waits until John stops firing, then calls out.)  
  
TORAN: You're surrounded! You have limited ammunition and I have unlimited
men.  
  
SHEPPARD: We'll take our chances.  
  
TORAN: If you make this hard, I will make your death as slow and as painful as
possible.  
  
SHEPPARD: OK. What's option number two?  
  
TORAN: Give us the girl and we'll let you go free.  
  
HARMONY: Never! They would rather die than deal with the likes of you savages!
When my sisters hear of this, the Genii will be finished! Finished, do you
hear?!  
  
TORAN: How do you think we knew how to find you, little one?  
  
HARMONY: You lie! Come at us with all you have! I shall silence you once and
for all!  
  
SHEPPARD (quietly to her): Whoa, whoa, whoa! Let _us_ handle this, OK?!  
  
TORAN: You have one minute.  
  
(John, Rodney and Harmony squat down behind the wall. She looks at John in
shock.)  
  
HARMONY: It can't be true.  
  
SHEPPARD: It doesn't matter right now, to be honest.  
  
HARMONY: How can you say that?  
  
(John looks at Rodney.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Did you get that thing working?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, before they started _shooting_ at it.  
  
SHEPPARD: So it's broken again?  
  
McKAY: Well, it was powered up. I mean, fifty-fifty chance it's still
operational.  
  
(John grimaces.)  
  
HARMONY: Provide me with cover. I'll make it to the pedestal, summon the Beast
and smite them.  
  
SHEPPARD: There will be no smiting today, little lady! You've never even used
that thing before.  
  
HARMONY: But I am the Queen and the Beast is my protector.  
  
SHEPPARD: It's a little more complicated than that.  
  
(He thinks for a moment, then looks at Rodney.)  
  
SHEPPARD: Did you say anyone with the Ancient gene can activate it?  
  
McKAY: Yeah, as long as they're wearing the ... pendant.  
  
(He looks down at Harmony.)  
  
HARMONY: _Exactly!_  
  
SHEPPARD (to Rodney): Fifty-fifty, huh?  
  
McKAY: A hundred percent chance they'll kill us if we talk about it for much
longer.  
  
(John sighs.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You got a full mag there?  
  
(Rodney looks down at his rifle.)  
  
McKAY: Locked and loaded.  
  
SHEPPARD: On three?  
  
McKAY (nervously): OK.  
  
HARMONY (smiling): Yes. Excellent.  
  
SHEPPARD: One ... two ... three.  
  
(He surges forward, grabs Harmony's pendant and snaps the chain from around
her neck. As she gasps, Rodney stands up and starts firing towards the Genii's
position while John races out of cover and sprints down to the pedestal. With
the pendant chain wrapped around his hand, he slams that hand down onto the
panel. It lights up and the pendant begins to glow. As Rodney continues
holding the Genii at bay, scores of mini-drones begin to whirr all around the
ruins and the rise. The Genii look at them, bewildered. Seeing John standing
out in the open and Rodney no longer firing, Toran steps out from cover and
looks at his men.)  
  
TORAN: What are you waiting for? Shoot him!  
  
(Preoccupied with the mini-drones, the soldiers start swatting at them as if
they are flies. Toran draws his pistol and aims it down at John. John stares
at him, and the mini-drones all surge towards Toran. A few impact with his
body and he falls to the ground. All the drones plunge down towards him. The
other Genii turn and run as the drones continue to swarm around and through
Toran's body.)  
  
(As John realises that the danger is over, the pedestal deactivates. Rodney
hurries down to join him.)  
  
McKAY: You all right?  
  
SHEPPARD: Yeah, yeah, I'm good. You?  
  
McKAY: Sure, sure.  
  
(Harmony joins them.)  
  
HARMONY: That was the bravest thing I've ever seen.  
  
(John smiles ironically.)  
  
SHEPPARD: You're young. I'm sure you'll meet even braver men than me as you
get older.  
  
(Harmony snatches her pendant from his hand.)  
  
HARMONY: Not _you_, usurper! You're lucky I like you, or you would be hung for
treason.  
  
(As John gapes in surprise, she turns to Rodney.)  
  
HARMONY: But you – you saved my life.  
  
McKAY: I did?  
  
HARMONY: When the Genii started firing at me, you threw yourself on me, using
your own body as a shield.  
  
(Irritated, John turns and walks away.)  
  
McKAY (wide-eyed): Oh, no. No-no-no. I just – I tripped and fell on top of
you. It was an accident.  
  
HARMONY (walking closer to him): And then you pulled me to safety.  
  
(He stares at her, unable to answer.)  
  
HARMONY: You don't don't not like me.  
  
(Rodney narrows his eyes as he tries to work his way through that sentence.)  
  
HARMONY: You _like_ me!  
  
McKAY: No. No-no-no, um ...  
  
(He looks to John for help.)  
  
HARMONY: Yes! You saved my life and restored the ruins. You are a hero, Doctor
McKay, both to me and my people.  
  
(Rodney tries to look nonchalant.)  
  
McKAY: Well, I don't know about "hero." "Exceptionally courageous," perhaps.  
  
HARMONY: And modest, too.  
  
SHEPPARD: It's time to go, before the Genii come back.  
  
HARMONY: I doubt it. They are a simple people and I'm sure they were most
impressed by your actions. _I_, however, was not.  
  
(Turning away from him, she holds her pendant in one hand and puts her hand
onto the pedestal's panel again. This time it lights up and her pendant begins
to glow. She smiles in satisfaction.)  
  
HARMONY: The pendant still glows. The gods have deemed me worthy. _Now_ we can
go.  
  
(She walks away. John and Rodney exchange a long irritated look, then follow
her.)  
  
  
CASTLE. As Mardola sits in her room reading, she looks up as the door bursts
open and a castle guard walks in, followed by Harmony and Flora. A second
guard follows them in and closes the door behind him. Mardola stands and tries
to smile at Harmony.  
  
MARDOLA: You've returned.  
  
(She looks round as the guards start to search through her cupboards and
cabinets.)  
  
MARDOLA: What are you doing? These are my private quarters.  
  
FLORA: It's all right, Mardola. They've already searched my room. You should
allow it.  
  
MARDOLA: Why?  
  
HARMONY: The Genii attacked us.  
  
MARDOLA: Oh! Well, it was a good thing Colonel Sheppard was there to protect
you.  
  
FLORA: They knew the location of the ruins, Mardola. How?  
  
MARDOLA: You ask as if I would _know_.  
  
(One of the guards brings over the Genii radio he has just found and puts it
on the desk in front of her. She gasps. Harmony glares at her, waiting for an
explanation. Mardola looks down at her.)  
  
MARDOLA: You're too _young_ to be Queen, Harmony.  
  
HARMONY: Perhaps. But when you're released from prison, you'll be too old to
remember.  
  
  
SOME DAYS LATER. CASTLE THRONE ROOM. Queen Harmony sits on her throne on a low
dais. Princess Flora stands nearby. Various courtiers fill the room, chatting,
as John and Rodney stand at the foot of the throne. Harmony stands and all the
courtiers fall silent and bow to her.  
  
HARMONY: Doctor Rodney McKay and Colonel John Sheppard. Your contribution to
my people may never be repaid.  
  
SHEPPARD: Well, we didn't do it for compensation, your Highness-ness.  
  
McKAY (quietly): Kiss-ass.  
  
HARMONY: I personally owe you a debt of gratitude for your help in defeating
the regicidal Genii. I've had one of the court's finest artisans feature you
in a rendering of our glorious victory.  
  
(She steps to the side of the throne and half turns to the rear wall where a
covering hangs over a painting. She nods to the servants standing there and
they pull the covering off to reveal the painting behind. It shows Harmony
standing fearlessly on the pedestal while mini-drones soar all around her. Her
right hand is on the shoulder of Rodney who is kneeling and firing towards the
enemy, snarling fiercely. Her left hand is held out slightly as if she is
controlling the drones. To her left, John crouches down behind her and cowers
in terror.)  
  
(Harmony smiles proudly as the courtiers begin to applaud. John stares up at
the picture in resignation. Rodney shrugs.)  
  
McKAY: Yeah, it's pretty much how I remember it.  
  
(He joins in the applause and smiles smugly as John turns and scowls at him.)

